More	Praise	for	Eat	That	Frog!


“BEWARE:	This	book	will	have	a	profound	impact	on	your	working	practices
and	the	results	you’ll	achieve.	Eat	That	Frog!	challenges	your	working	practices,
it	explains	the	self-discipline	needed	to	succeed,	and	[it]	firmly	gets	to	the	root
cause	of	why	people	procrastinate.	Then	it	effortlessly	explains	how	to	boost
your	productivity	once	and	for	all.”
—Micro	Business	Hub

“If	you	find	procrastination	to	be	a	consistent	problem	in	your	life,	Eat	That
Frog!	offers	a	concise	and	valuable	collection	of	tactics	to	try.	The	reasons	for
each	person’s	procrastination	are	different,	so	it’s	good	that	Tracy’s	tactics	are
fairly	diverse	and	attack	many	different	avenues	of	procrastination.”
—The	Simple	Dollar

“Eat	That	Frog!	is	my	favourite	book	on	productivity,	and	I	often	find	myself
rereading	it	in	January	to	remind	myself	of	the	disciplines	and	practices	I’d	like
to	follow	in	the	coming	year.	Each	time	I	read	the	book,	I	find	new	nuggets	of
productivity	gold.”
—Liz	Gooster,	Change	for	the	Better

“Everyone	has	a	frog,	and	eating	that	frog	is	the	best	thing	you	can	do	to	stop
procrastinating.	Procrastination	is	a	time-killer,	and	Tracy	has	a	way	of	making
getting	over	that	frog	fun	and	exciting.	Every	chapter	presents	a	new	idea,	tip,
and	technique	that	will	help	you	overcome	that	inner	laziness	that	keeps	you	on
the	couch	at	night	instead	of	in	the	gym.”
—Peanut	Press

“Eat	That	Frog!,	small	in	pages	but	huge	in	content,	offers	a	cure	for	the	curse	of
modern-day	living:	procrastination.	Even	though	the	medicine	sounds	painful
(bush	tucker	trail	kind	of	stuff),	it	isn’t.	Like	you,	I	have	read	zillions	of	books—
and	most	of	the	time	I	can’t	remember	anything	that	I	have	just	read.	Not	with
this	one.	I’m	eating	frogs	daily	and	feeling	better	for	it!	I	can’t	recommend	Eat

3
That	Frog!	enough.”
—Corinna	 Richards,	  The	Coaching	 Academy

“This	book	 gave	me	the	kick	in	the	pants	I	needed	to	organize	my	to-do	lists,
plan	my	days,	become	more	productive,	and	get	focused.”
—Beth	Anne	 Schwamberger,	  Brilliant	  Business	Moms

“Eat	That	Frog!	 is	the	most	accessible	book	on	time	management	and	personal
productivity—I	 recommend	you	read	this	one	before	you	learn	any	particular
time	management	system.	There	are	tons	of	exercises	and	techniques	that	you
can	implement	right	away,	and	that	is	what	I	like	 the	most	about	the	book—it
gives	you	actionable	steps	so	you	can	start	right	away.”
—Thanh	 Pham,	 Asian	Efficiency

    “An	 impactful	 read.	The	21	ways	that	[Tracy]	 shares	are	real	game-changers,
if	you	read	with	 an	eye	towards	self-improvement	and	an	intention	to	make	a
change.	I	have	benefited	greatly	from	this	book,	and	I	highly	 recommend	that
you	pick	up	your	own	 copy	today.”
—Chris	 Moore,	 Reflect	on	 This

“We	strongly	 recommend	this	book	to	anyone	who	wants	to	manage	her	time
well	and	also	add	value	to	herself	in	this	competitive	 world.”
—The	Journal	 of	 Applied	Christian	  Leadership

“I	wasn’t	 expecting	all	that	much	from	 the	book	initially,	 as	the	whole	‘eating	 a
frog’	seemed	like	some	new	age	nonsense	that	didn’t	really	apply	in	real	life.	 I
couldn’t	have	been	more	wrong.	The	best	thing	about	this	book	is	that	it	 actually
tells	you	what	you	should	do.	It	 doesn’t	just	spout	philosophy	after	philosophy
about	dreams	and	hope.	It	gives	solid,	practical	advice	that	applies	to	pretty
much	every	one—students,	employees,	stay-at-home	moms,	entrepreneurs,	etc.
Whether	you’re	having	time	 management	issues	or	not,	I’d	recommend	you	pick
up	this	book.	You’re	 sure	to	learn	something	useful	from	it.”
—Fab,	Shocks	and	Shoes

“This	book	 distinguishes	itself	from	 others	of	the	same	type	by	laying	out
specific	guidelines	for	developing	 the	self-discipline	 that	allows	you	to	start	and
complete	important	tasks	in	sequence.	Each	of	the	21	chapters	offers	clear
instructions	and	practice	exercises	to	help	you	determine	if	you	are	making	the
best	use	of	your	time	at	any	given	moment.	You’ll	 learn	how	to	 prepare	yourself

4
best	use	of	your	time	at	any	given	moment.	You’ll	 learn	how	to	 prepare	yourself
mentally	and	physically	 to	tackle	the	task	at	hand,	along	with	strategies	for
dividing	 it	into	manageable	segments	to	keep	you	moving	forward.	You’ll	  even
find	out	what	to	tell	 yourself	to	do	if	 you’re	 having	trouble	getting	started,	or
become	distracted	and	need	to	get	back	on	track.”
—Carnegie	 Library	  Business	Librarians,	   Pittsburgh	 Post-Gazette

6
             OTHER	 BOOKS	BY	BRIAN	 TRACY

                          Maximum	Achievement

                       Advanced	Selling	Strategies

The	100	Absolutely	Unbreakable	Laws	of	Business	Success

          21	Success	Secrets	of	Self-Made	Millionaires

                                   Focal	Point

                                     Victory!

                         Create	Your	Own	Future

                                      Goals!

                                 TurboStrategy

                            Be	a	Sales	Superstar

            Change	Your	Thinking,	Change	Your	Life

                           Million	 Dollar	Habits

                                  Time	Power

                      Getting	Rich	Your	Own	Way

                                  TurboCoach

                        The	Psychology	of	Selling

                          Something	for	Nothing

                       The	Art	of	Closing	the	Sale

7
         Crunch	Point

    The	Way	to	Wealth

Find	Your	Balance	Point

8
                   Eat	  That	   Frog!

21	Great	Ways	to	Stop	Procrastinating	and	Get	More
                      Done	in	Less	Time

                          Brian	Tracy

9
Eat	That	 Frog!

Copyright	©	 2017	by	Brian	Tracy
All	 rights	reserved.	No	part	of	this	publication	 may	be	reproduced,	distributed,
or	transmitted	in	any	form	 or	by	any	means,	including	photocopying,	recording,
or	other	electronic	or	mechanical	methods,	without	the	prior	 written	permission
of	the	publisher,	except	in	the	case	of	brief	quotations	embodied	in	critical
reviews	and	certain	other	noncommercial	uses	permitted	by	copyright	law.	 For
permission	requests,	write	to	the	publisher,	addressed	“Attention:	Permissions
Coordinator,”	 at	the	address	below.

               Berrett-Koehler	 Publishers,	Inc.
               1333	Broadway,	 Suite	1000
               Oakland,	 CA	94612-1921
               Tel:	 (510)	817-2277,	Fax:	(510)	817-2278
               www.bkconnection.com

Ordering	 information	   for	 print	  editions
Quantity	sales.	Special	discounts	are	available	on	quantity	purchases	by
corporations,	associations,	and	others.	For	details,	contact	the	“Special	Sales
Department”	at	the	Berrett-Koehler	 address	above.
Individual	 sales.	Berrett-Koehler	publications	 are	available	through	most
bookstores.	They	can	also	be	ordered	directly	from	Berrett-Koehler:	 Tel:	(800)
929-2929;	Fax:	(802)	864-7626;	www.bkconnection.com	 Orders	 for	college
textbook/course	adoption	use.	Please	contact	Berrett-Koehler:	Tel:	(800)	929-
2929;	Fax:	(802)	864-7626.
Orders	by	U.S.	trade	bookstores	and	wholesalers.	Please	contact	Ingram
Publisher	Services,	Tel:	(800)	509-4887;	Fax:	(800)	838-1149;	 E-mail:
customer.	service@ingrampublisherservices.com;	or	visit
www.ingrampublisherservices.com/	 Ordering	for	details	about	electronic
ordering.

Berrett-Koehler	and	the	BK	 logo	are	registered	trademarks	of	Berrett-Koehler
Publishers,	Inc.

Third	Edition
Paperback	print	edition	ISBN	 978-1-62656-941-6

10
Paperback	print	edition	ISBN	 978-1-62656-941-6
PDF	e-book	ISBN	978-1-62656-942-3
IDPF	e-book	ISBN	 978-1-62656943-0

2017-1

Designer:	Beverly	Butterfield,	 Girl	 of	the	West	Productions	Copyeditor:
PeopleSpeak

Indexer:	Rachel	Rice

Cover	designer:	Irene	Morris	Design

11
To	my	remarkable	daughter	Catherine,	an	amazing	girl	with	 a	wonderful	mind
                              and	an	incredible	future	lying	 before	her

12
        Contents




     Preface

     Introduction:	Eat	That	Frog

 1		Set	the	Table

 2		Plan	Every	Day	in	Advance

 3		Apply	the	80/20	Rule	to	Everything

 4		Consider	the	Consequences

 5		Practice	Creative	Procrastination

 6		Use	the	ABCDE	Method	Continually

 7		Focus	on	Key	Result	Areas

 8		Apply	the	Law	of	Three

 9		Prepare	Thoroughly	Before	You	Begin

10		Take	It	One	Oil	Barrel	at	a	Time

11		Upgrade	Your	Key	Skills

12		Identify	Your	Key	Constraints

13		Put	the	Pressure	on	Yourself

14		Motivate	Yourself	into	Action

15		Technology	Is	a	Terrible	Master

16		Technology	Is	a	Wonderful	Servant

17		Focus	Your	Attention

18		Slice	and	Dice	the	Task

13
19		Create	Large	Chunks	of	Time

20		Develop	a	Sense	of	Urgency

21		Single	Handle	Every	Task

     Conclusion:	 Putting	It	All	 Together

     Notes

     Index

     Learning	Resources	of	Brian	Tracy	 International

     About	 the	Author

14
        Preface




     Thank	you	for	picking	up	this	book.	I	hope	these	ideas	help	you	as	much	as
they	have	helped	me	and	thousands	of	others.	In	fact,	I	hope	this	book	changes
your	life	forever.
    There	is	never	enough	time	to	do	everything	you	have	to	do.	You	are	literally
swamped	with	work	and	personal	responsibilities,	endless	e-mails,	social	media,
projects,	stacks	of	magazines	to	read,	and	piles	of	books	you	intend	to	get	to	one
of	these	days—as	soon	as	you	get	caught	up.
    But	the	fact	is	that	you	are	never	going	to	get	caught	up.	You	will	never	get
on	top	of	your	tasks.	You	will	never	get	far	enough	ahead	to	be	able	to	get	to	all
those	e-mails,	books,	magazines,	and	leisure-time	activities	that	you	dream	of.
    And	forget	about	solving	your	time	management	problems	by	becoming	more
productive.	No	matter	how	many	personal	productivity	techniques	you	master,
there	will	always	be	more	to	do	than	you	can	ever	accomplish	in	the	time	you
have	available	to	you,	no	matter	how	much	it	is.
    You	can	get	control	of	your	time	and	your	life	only	by	changing	the	way	you
think,	work,	and	deal	with	the	never-ending	river	of	responsibilities	that	flows
over	you	each	day.	You	can	get	control	of	your	tasks	and	activities	only	to	the
degree	that	you	stop	doing	some	things	and	start	spending	more	time	on	the	few
activities	that	can	really	make	a	difference	in	your	life.
    I	have	studied	time	management	for	more	than	forty	years.	I	have	immersed
myself	in	the	works	of	Peter	Drucker,	Alec	Mackenzie,	Alan	Lakein,	Stephen
Covey,	and	many,	many	others.	I	have	read	hundreds	of	books	and	thousands	of
articles	on	personal	efficiency	and	effectiveness.	This	book	is	the	result.
    Each	time	I	came	across	a	good	idea,	I	tried	it	out	in	my	own	work	and
personal	life.	If	it	worked,	I	incorporated	it	into	my	talks	and	seminars	and
taught	it	to	others.
    Galileo	once	wrote,	“You	cannot	teach	a	man	anything;	you	can	only	help
him	find	it	within	himself.”
    Depending	upon	your	level	of	knowledge	and	experience,	these	ideas	may

15
    Depending	upon	your	 level	of	knowledge	 and	experience,	these	ideas	may
sound	familiar.	This	 book	will	 bring	them	to	a	higher	level	 of	awareness.	When
you	learn	and	apply	these	methods	and	techniques	over	and	over	until	they
become	habits,	you	will	alter	the	course	of	your	 life	in	 a	very	positive	way.


Learning	    from	  Successful	   People

Let	me	tell	you	something	about	myself	 and	the	origins	of	this	little	 book.	I
started	off	in	life	 with	few	 advantages,	aside	from	a	curious	mind.	I	did	poorly	 in
school	and	left	without	 graduating.	I	worked	at	laboring	 jobs	for	several	years.
My	future	 did	not	appear	promising.
    As	 a	young	man,	I	got	a	job	on	a	tramp	freighter	and	went	off	 to	see	the
world.	For	eight	 years,	I	traveled	and	worked	and	then	traveled	some	more,
eventually	visiting	 more	than	eighty	countries	on	five	 continents.
    When	I	 could	no	longer	find	 a	laboring	job,	I	 got	into	sales,	knocking	on
doors,	working	on	straight	commission.	 I	struggled	from	 sale	to	sale	until	I
began	looking	around	me	and	asking,	“Why	is	it	 that	other	people	are	doing
better	than	I	am?”
    Then	I	 did	something	that	changed	my	life.	I	 began	to	ask	successful	people
what	they	were	doing	that	enabled	them	to	be	more	productive	and	earn	more
money	than	me.	And	they	told	me.	I	did	 what	they	advised	me	to	do,	and	my
sales	went	up.	Eventually,	I	became	so	successful	that	I	was	made	a	sales
manager.	As	a	sales	manager,	I	used	the	same	strategy.	I	asked	successful
managers	what	they	did	to	achieve	such	great	results,	and	when	they	told	me,	I
did	it	myself.	 In	no	time	at	all,	I	 began	to	get	the	same	results	they	did.
    This	 process	of	learning	and	applying	what	I	had	learned	changed	my	life.	I
am	still	amazed	at	how	simple	and	obvious	it	is.	Just	find	 out	what	other
successful	people	do	and	do	the	same	things	until	you	get	the	same	results.	Learn
from	the	experts.	Wow!	 What	an	idea.


Success	 Is	 Predictable

Simply	put,	some	people	are	doing	better	than	others	because	they	do	things
differently	 and	they	do	the	right	things	right.	 Especially,	successful,	happy,
prosperous	people	use	their	time	far,	far	better	than	the	average	person.
    Coming	 from	an	unsuccessful	background,	I	had	developed	deep	feelings	of
inferiority	 and	inadequacy.	I	had	fallen	into	the	mental	trap	of	 assuming	that
people	who	were	doing	better	than	me	were	actually	better	than	me.	What	I
learned	was	that	this	was	not	necessarily	true.	They	were	just	doing	things

16
differently,	and	what	they	had	learned	to	do,	within	 reason,	I	could	learn	as	well.
    This	 was	a	revelation	to	me.	I	was	both	amazed	and	excited	with	this
discovery.	I	still	 am.	I	realized	that	I	could	 change	my	life	and	achieve	almost
any	goal	I	could	set	if	I	 just	found	out	what	others	were	doing	in	 that	area	and
then	did	it	myself	 until	I	 got	the	same	results	they	were	getting.
    Within	 one	year	of	starting	in	 sales,	I	was	a	top	salesman.	A	year	later	I	was
made	a	manager.	Within	three	years,	I	became	a	vice	president	in	charge	of	a
ninety-five-person	sales	force	in	six	countries.	I	 was	twenty-five	 years	old.
    Over	the	years,	I	have	worked	in	 twenty-two	 different	jobs;	started	and	built
several	companies;	earned	a	business	degree	from	a	major	university;	learned	to
speak	French,	German,	and	Spanish;	and	been	a	speaker,	trainer,	or	consultant
for	more	than	1,000	companies.	I	currently	give	 talks	and	seminars	to	more	than
250,000	people	each	year,	with	audiences	as	large	as	20,000	people.


A	 Simple	  Truth

Throughout	my	career,	I	have	discovered	and	rediscovered	a	simple	truth.	The
ability	to	 concentrate	single-mindedly	on	your	most	important	 task,	to	do	it	well
and	to	finish	it	completely,	 is	the	key	to	great	success,	achievement,	respect,
status,	and	happiness	in	life.	This	key	insight	is	the	heart	and	soul	of	this	book.
    This	 book	is	written	 to	show	you	how	to	get	ahead	more	rapidly	in	your
career	and	to	simultaneously	enrich	your	personal	life.	These	pages	contain	the
twenty-one	most	powerful	 principles	on	personal	effectiveness	I	have	ever
discovered.
    These	methods,	techniques,	and	strategies	are	practical,	proven,	and	fast
acting.	In	the	interest	of	time,	I	 do	not	dwell	on	the	various	psychological	 or
emotional	explanations	for	procrastination	 or	poor	time	management.	There	are
no	lengthy	departures	into	theory	or	research.	What	you	will	 learn	are	specific
actions	you	can	take	immediately	to	get	better,	faster	results	in	your	work	 and	to
increase	your	happiness.
    Every	 idea	in	this	book	is	focused	on	increasing	your	overall	 levels	of
productivity,	 performance,	and	output	and	on	making	you	more	valuable	in
whatever	you	do.	You	can	apply	many	of	these	ideas	to	your	personal	life	as
well.
    Each	of	these	twenty-one	methods	and	techniques	is	complete	in	itself.	All
are	necessary.	One	strategy	might	be	effective	in	one	situation	and	another	might
apply	to	another	task.	All	 together,	these	twenty-one	ideas	represent	a
smorgasbord	of	personal	effectiveness	techniques	that	you	can	use	at	any	time,
in	any	order	or	sequence	that	makes	sense	to	you	at	the	moment.

17
in	any	order	or	sequence	that	makes	sense	to	you	at	the	moment.
    The	key	to	 success	is	action.	These	principles	work	to	bring	about	fast,
predictable	improvements	in	performance	and	results.	The	faster	you	learn	and
apply	them,	the	faster	you	will	 move	ahead	in	your	career—guaranteed!
    There	will	 be	no	limit	 to	what	you	 can	accomplish	when	you	learn	how	to	Eat
That	Frog!


                                                                                                              Brian	Tracy
                                                                                         Solana	Beach,	California
                                                                                                            January	2017

18
       Introduction:	                  Eat	     That	      Frog




     This	is	a	wonderful	time	to	be	alive.	There	have	never	been	more
possibilities	and	opportunities	for	you	to	achieve	more	of	your	goals	than	exist
today.	As	perhaps	never	before	in	human	history,	you	are	actually	drowning	in
options.	In	fact,	there	are	so	many	good	things	that	you	can	do	that	your	ability
to	decide	among	them	may	be	the	critical	determinant	of	what	you	accomplish	in
life.
    If	you	are	like	most	people	today,	you	are	overwhelmed	with	too	much	to	do
and	too	little	time.	As	you	struggle	to	get	caught	up,	new	tasks	and
responsibilities	just	keep	rolling	in,	like	the	waves	of	the	ocean.	Because	of	this,
you	will	never	be	able	to	do	everything	you	have	to	do.	You	will	never	be	caught
up.	You	will	always	be	behind	in	some	of	your	tasks	and	responsibilities,	and
probably	in	many	of	them.

The	Need	to	Be	Selective

For	this	reason,	and	perhaps	more	than	ever	before,	your	ability	to	select	your
most	important	task	at	each	moment,	and	then	to	get	started	on	that	task	and	to
get	it	done	both	quickly	and	well,	will	probably	have	more	of	an	impact	on	your
success	than	any	other	quality	or	skill	you	can	develop.
    An	average	person	who	develops	the	habit	of	setting	clear	priorities	and
getting	important	tasks	completed	quickly	will	run	circles	around	a	genius	who
talks	a	lot	and	makes	wonderful	plans	but	who	gets	very	little	done.

The	Truth	  about	Frogs

It	has	been	said	that	if	the	first	thing	you	do	each	morning	is	to	eat	a	live	frog,
you	can	go	through	the	day	with	the	satisfaction	of	knowing	that	that	is	probably
the	worst	thing	that	is	going	to	happen	to	you	all	day	long.
    Your	“frog”	is	your	biggest,	most	important	task,	the	one	you	are	most	likely

19
    Your	 “frog”	 is	 your	biggest,	most	important	task,	the	one	you	are	most	likely
to	procrastinate	on	if	you	don’t	 do	something	about	it.	It	is	also	the	one	task	that
can	have	the	greatest	positive	impact	on	your	life	and	results	at	the	moment.


  The	first	 rule	of	frog	 eating	is	this:	If	 you	have	to	eat	two	frogs,	eat	the	ugliest
                                                         one	first.


    This	 is	another	way	of	saying	that	if	 you	have	two	important	tasks	before	you,
start	with	the	biggest,	hardest,	and	most	important	task	first.	Discipline	 yourself
to	begin	immediately	and	then	to	persist	until	 the	task	is	complete	before	you	go
on	to	something	else.
    Think	 of	this	 as	a	test.	Treat	it	like	a	personal	challenge.	Resist	the	temptation
to	start	with	the	easier	task.	Continually	remind	 yourself	that	one	of	the	most
important	decisions	you	make	each	day	is	what	you	will	 do	immediately	 and
what	you	will	 do	later,	if	 you	do	it	at	all.


     The	second	rule	of	frog	eating	is	this:	If	 you	have	to	eat	a	live	frog	at	all,	 it
                            doesn’t	pay	to	sit	 and	look	at	it	for	 very	long.


    The	key	to	 reaching	high	levels	of	performance	and	productivity	 is	to	develop
the	lifelong	habit	 of	tackling	your	 major	task	first	 thing	each	morning.	You	must
develop	the	routine	of	“eating	your	 frog”	 before	you	do	anything	else	and
without	taking	 too	much	time	to	think	 about	it.


Take	  Action	   Immediately

In	study	after	study	of	men	and	women	who	get	paid	more	and	promoted	faster,
the	quality	of	“action	 orientation”	 stands	out	as	the	most	observable	and
consistent	behavior	they	demonstrate	in	everything	they	do.	Successful,	effective
people	are	those	who	launch	directly	into	their	major	 tasks	and	then	discipline
themselves	to	work	steadily	and	single-mindedly	 until	those	tasks	are	complete.
    “Failure	 to	execute”	is	one	of	 the	biggest	problems	in	organizations	today.
Many	people	confuse	activity	 with	accomplishment.	They	 talk	continually,	 hold
endless	meetings,	and	make	wonderful	plans,	but	in	the	final	analysis,	no	one
does	the	job	and	gets	the	results	required.


Develop	  the	 Habits	   of	 Success

20
Your	success	in	life	and	work	will	  be	determined	by	the	kinds	of	habits	that	you
develop	over	time.	The	habit	of	setting	priorities,	 overcoming	 procrastination,
and	getting	on	with	your	most	important	 task	is	a	mental	and	physical	skill.	As
such,	this	habit	is	learnable	through	practice	and	repetition,	over	and	over	again,
until	it	 locks	into	your	 subconscious	mind	and	becomes	a	permanent	part	of	your
behavior.	Once	it	becomes	a	habit,	it	becomes	both	automatic	and	easy	to	do.
    This	 habit	of	starting	and	completing	important	 tasks	has	an	immediate	and
continuous	payoff.	You	 are	designed	mentally	and	emotionally	in	such	a	way
that	task	completion	gives	you	a	positive	feeling.	 It	makes	you	happy.	It	makes
you	feel	like	a	winner.
    Whenever	you	complete	a	task	of	any	size	or	importance,	you	 feel	a	surge	of
energy,	enthusiasm,	and	self-esteem.	The	more	important	the	completed	task,	the
happier,	more	confident,	and	more	powerful	you	 feel	about	yourself	and	your
world.
    The	completion	 of	an	important	task	triggers	the	release	of	endorphins	in
your	brain.	These	endorphins	give	you	a	natural	“high.”	 The	endorphin	rush	that
follows	successful	completion	 of	any	task	makes	you	feel	more	positive,
personable,	creative,	and	confident.


Develop	  a	 Positive	  Addiction

Here	is	one	of	the	most	important	of	the	so-called	secrets	of	success.	You	can
actually	develop	a	“positive	 addiction”	 to	endorphins	and	to	the	feeling	of
enhanced	clarity,	confidence,	and	competence	that	they	trigger.	When	you
develop	this	addiction,	you	will,	 at	an	unconscious	level,	begin	to	organize	your
life	in	such	a	way	that	you	are	continually	 starting	and	completing	ever	more
important	tasks	and	projects.	You	will	 actually	become	addicted,	in	a	very
positive	sense,	to	success	and	contribution.
    One	of	the	keys	to	your	 living	 a	wonderful	life,	 having	a	successful	career,
and	feeling	terrific	 about	yourself	is	to	develop	the	habit	of	 starting	and	finishing
important	jobs.	When	you	do,	this	behavior	 will	 take	on	a	power	of	its	own	and
you’ll	 find	it	 easier	to	complete	important	tasks	than	not	to	complete	them.


No	 Shortcuts

You	remember	the	story	of	the	man	who	stops	a	musician	on	a	street	in	New
York	and	asks	how	he	can	get	to	Carnegie	Hall.	The	musician	replies,	“Practice,
man,	practice.”
    Practice	is	the	key	to	mastering	any	skill.	 Fortunately,	your	 mind	is	like	 a

21
    Practice	is	the	key	to	mastering	any	skill.	 Fortunately,	your	 mind	is	like	 a
muscle.	It	grows	stronger	and	more	capable	with	use.	With	practice,	you	can
learn	any	behavior	or	develop	any	habit	that	you	consider	either	desirable	or
necessary.


The	 Three	   Ds	of	 New	  Habit	   Formation

You	need	three	key	qualities	to	develop	the	habits	of	focus	and	concentration,
which	are	all	learnable.	They	are	decision,	discipline,	and	determination.
    First,	 make	a	decision	to	develop	the	habit	of	task	completion.	Second,
discipline	yourself	 to	practice	the	principles	you	are	about	to	learn	over	and	over
until	they	become	automatic.	And	third,	 back	everything	you	do	with
determination	until	 the	habit	is	locked	in	and	becomes	a	permanent	part	of	your
personality.


Visualize	   Yourself	    as	You	  Want	   to	 Be

There	is	a	special	way	that	you	can	accelerate	your	progress	toward	becoming
the	highly	productive,	 effective,	efficient	 person	that	you	want	to	be.	It	consists
of	your	thinking	 continually	 about	the	rewards	and	benefits	of	being	an	action-
oriented,	fast-moving,	and	focused	person.	See	yourself	as	the	kind	of	person
who	gets	important	jobs	done	quickly	 and	well	on	a	consistent	basis.
    Your	 mental	picture	of	 yourself	has	a	powerful	effect	on	your	 behavior.
Visualize	yourself	 as	the	person	you	in–tend	to	be	in	the	future.	Your	self-image,
the	way	you	see	yourself	on	the	inside,	largely	determines	your	performance	on
the	outside.	All	improvements	 in	your	outer	life	 begin	with	 improvements	on	the
inside,	in	your	mental	pictures.
    You	 have	a	virtually	 unlimited	ability	 to	learn	and	develop	new	skills,	 habits,
and	abilities.	When	you	train	yourself,	 through	repetition	 and	practice,	to
overcome	procrastination	and	get	your	most	important	tasks	completed	quickly,
you	will	 move	onto	the	fast	track	in	your	 life	and	career	and	step	on	the
accelerator	of	your	potential.
    Eat	That	 Frog!

22
1	 Set	    the	    Table


    There	is	one	quality	which	 one	must	possess	to	win,	and	that	is
    definiteness	of	purpose,	the	knowledge	of	what	one	wants	and	a
    burning	 desire	to	achieve	it.

   NAPOLEON	HILL


Before	you	can	determine	your	“frog”	and	get	on	with	the	job	of	eating	it,	you
have	to	decide	exactly	what	you	want	to	achieve	in	each	area	of	your	life.	Clarity
is	perhaps	the	most	important	concept	in	personal	productivity.	The	number	one
reason	why	some	people	get	more	work	done	faster	is	because	they	are
absolutely	clear	about	their	goals	and	objectives,	and	they	don’t	deviate	from
them.	The	greater	clarity	you	have	regarding	what	you	want	and	the	steps	you
will	have	to	take	to	achieve	it,	the	easier	it	will	be	for	you	to	overcome
procrastination,	eat	your	frog,	and	complete	the	task	before	you.
    A	major	reason	for	procrastination	and	lack	of	motivation	is	vagueness,
confusion,	and	fuzzy-mindedness	about	what	you	are	trying	to	do	and	in	what
order	and	for	what	reason.	You	must	avoid	this	common	condition	with	all	your
strength	by	striving	for	ever-greater	clarity	in	your	major	goals	and	tasks.

                       Here	is	a	great	rule	for	success:	Think	on	paper.

    Only	about	3	percent	of	adults	have	clear,	written	goals.	These	people
accomplish	five	and	ten	times	as	much	as	people	of	equal	or	better	education	and
ability	but	who,	for	whatever	reason,	have	never	taken	the	time	to	write	out
exactly	what	they	want.
    There	is	a	powerful	formula	for	setting	and	achieving	goals	that	you	can	use
for	the	rest	of	your	life.	It	consists	of	seven	simple	steps.	Any	one	of	these	steps
can	double	and	triple	your	productivity	if	you	are	not	currently	using	it.	Many	of
my	graduates	have	increased	their	incomes	dramatically	in	a	matter	of	a	few
years,	or	even	a	few	months,	with	this	simple,	seven-part	method.

23
    Step	one:	Decide	exactly	what	you	want.	Either	 decide	for	yourself	or	sit
down	with	your	 boss	and	discuss	your	goals	and	objectives	until	you	are	crystal
clear	about	what	is	expected	of	you	and	in	what	order	of	priority.	 It	 is	amazing
how	many	people	are	working	away,	day	after	day,	on	low-value	 tasks	because
they	have	not	had	this	critical	discussion	with	 their	managers.
    One	of	the	very	 worst	uses	of	time	is	to	do	something	very	well	 that	need	not
be	done	at	all.
    Stephen	Covey	says,	“If	 the	ladder	is	not	leaning	against	the	right	wall,	every
step	we	take	just	gets	us	to	the	wrong	place	faster.”
    Step	two:	Write	 it	down.	Think	 on	paper.	When	you	write	 down	a	goal,	you
crystallize	it	and	give	it	 tangible	form.	 You	create	something	that	you	can	touch
and	see.	On	the	other	hand,	a	goal	or	objective	that	is	not	in	writing	is	merely	a
wish	or	a	fantasy.	It	has	no	energy	behind	it.	Unwritten	 goals	lead	to	confusion,
vagueness,	misdirection,	and	numerous	mistakes.
    Step	three:	Set	a	deadline	on	your	goal;	set	subdeadlines	if	necessary.	A	goal
or	decision	without	a	deadline	has	no	urgency.	It	has	no	real	beginning	or	end.
Without	a	definite	 deadline	accompanied	by	the	assignment	or	acceptance	of
specific	responsibilities	for	 completion,	you	 will	 naturally	procrastinate	and	get
very	little	 done.
    Step	four:	 Make	a	list	of	everything	you	can	think	 of	that	you	are	going	to
have	to	do	to	achieve	your	goal.	As	you	think	 of	new	activities,	 add	them	to	your
list.	Keep	building	 your	list	 until	it	 is	complete.	A	list	 gives	you	a	visual	picture
of	the	larger	task	or	objective.	It	 gives	you	a	track	to	run	on.	It	dramatically
increases	the	likelihood	that	you	will	 achieve	your	goal	as	you	have	defined	it
and	on	schedule.
    Step	five:	 Organize	the	list	into	 a	plan.	Organize	your	list	 by	priority	 and
sequence.	List	all	tasks	in	the	order	they	need	to	be	done.	Take	a	few	minutes	to
decide	what	you	need	to	do	first	and	what	you	can	do	later.	Decide	what	has	to
be	done	before	something	else	and	what	needs	to	be	done	afterward.
    Even	better,	lay	out	your	 plan	visually	 in	the	form	of	 a	series	of	boxes	and
circles	on	a	sheet	of	paper,	with	lines	and	arrows	showing	the	relationship	of
each	task	to	every	other	task.	You’ll	be	amazed	at	how	much	easier	it	is	to
achieve	your	goal	when	you	break	it	down	into	 individual	 tasks.
    With	 a	written	goal	 and	an	organized	plan	of	action,	you	will	 be	far	more
productive	and	efficient	 than	people	who	are	carrying	their	goals	around	in	their
minds.
    Step	six:	Take	action	on	your	 plan	immediately.	Do	 something.	Do	anything.
An	average	plan	vigorously	executed	is	far	better	than	a	brilliant	 plan	on	which

24
nothing	is	done.	For	you	to	achieve	any	kind	of	 success,	execution	is	everything.
    Step	seven:	Resolve	to	do	something	every	single	day	that	moves	you	toward
your	major	goal.	 Build	this	 activity	 into	your	daily	 schedule.	You	may	decide	to
read	a	specific	number	of	pages	on	a	key	subject.	You	may	call	on	a	specific
number	of	prospects	or	customers.	You	may	engage	in	a	specific	period	of
physical	exercise.	You	may	learn	a	certain	number	of	new	words	in	a	foreign
language.	Whatever	it	is,	you	must	never	miss	a	day.
    Keep	pushing	forward.	 Once	you	start	moving,	keep	moving.	 Don’t	 stop.
This	decision,	this	discipline	 alone,	can	dramatically	increase	your	speed	of	goal
accomplishment	and	boost	your	personal	productivity.


The	 Power	  of	 Written	     Goals

Clear	written	goals	have	a	wonderful	effect	 on	your	thinking.	 They	motivate	you
and	galvanize	you	into	action.	They	stimulate	your	 creativity,	 release	your
energy,	and	help	you	overcome	procrastination	as	much	as	any	other	factor.
    Goals	are	the	fuel	in	the	furnace	of	 achievement.	The	bigger	your	goals	and
the	clearer	they	are,	the	more	excited	you	become	about	achieving	them.	The
more	you	think	about	your	goals,	the	greater	becomes	your	inner	drive	and	your
desire	to	accomplish	them.
    Think	 about	your	goals	and	review	them	daily.	 Every	morning	 when	you
begin,	take	action	on	the	most	important	task	you	can	accomplish	to	achieve
your	most	important	goal	at	the	moment.












                                        EAT	     THAT	       FROG!


    1.	Take	a	clean	sheet	of	paper	right	now	and	make	a	list	of	ten	goals	you
    want	to	accomplish	in	the	next	year.	Write	 your	goals	as	though	a	year	has
    already	passed	and	they	are	now	a	reality.

25
    Use	the	present	tense,	positive	voice,	and	first	person	singular	so	that
they	are	immediately	accepted	by	your	subconscious	mind.	For	example,
you	could	write,	 “I	earn	x	number	of	dollars	 per	year	by	this	date”	or	“I
weigh	x	number	of	pounds	by	this	date”	or	“I	 drive	 such	and	such	a	car	by
this	date.”

2.	Review	your	list	 of	ten	goals	and	select	the	one	goal	that,	if	you	achieved
it,	would	have	the	greatest	positive	impact	on	your	life.	 Whatever	that	goal
is,	write	it	 on	a	separate	sheet	of	paper,	set	a	deadline,	make	a	plan,	take
action	on	your	plan,	and	then	do	something	every	single	day	that	moves
you	toward	that	goal.	This	exercise	alone	could	change	your	life!

26
2	 Plan	      Every	        Day	     in	   Advance


    Planning	is	bringing	 the	future	into	the	present	so	that	you	can	do
    something	about	it	now.

   ALAN	LAKEIN


You	have	heard	the	old	question,	“How	do	you	eat	an	elephant?”	The	answer	is
“One	bite	at	a	time!”
    How	do	you	eat	your	biggest,	ugliest	frog?	The	same	way:	you	break	it	down
into	specific	step-by-step	activities	and	then	you	start	on	the	first	one.
    Your	mind,	your	ability	to	think,	plan,	and	decide,	is	your	most	powerful	tool
for	overcoming	procrastination	and	increasing	your	productivity.	Your	ability	to
set	goals,	make	plans,	and	take	action	on	them	determines	the	course	of	your
life.	The	very	act	of	thinking	and	planning	unlocks	your	mental	powers,	triggers
your	creativity,	and	increases	your	mental	and	physical	energies.
    Conversely,	as	Alec	Mackenzie	wrote,	“Taking	action	without	thinking	things
through	is	a	prime	source	of	problems.”
    Your	ability	to	make	good	plans	before	you	act	is	a	measure	of	your	overall
competence.	The	better	the	plan	you	have,	the	easier	it	is	for	you	to	overcome
procrastination,	to	get	started,	to	eat	your	frog,	and	then	to	keep	going.

Increase	Your	 Return	  on	Energy

One	of	your	top	goals	at	work	should	be	to	get	the	highest	possible	return	on
your	investment	of	your	mental,	emotional,	and	physical	energy.	The	good	news
is	that	every	minute	spent	in	planning	saves	as	many	as	ten	minutes	in	execution.
It	takes	only	about	10	to	12	minutes	for	you	to	plan	your	day,	but	this	small
investment	of	time	will	save	you	up	to	two	hours	(100	to	120	minutes)	in	wasted
time	and	diffuse	effort	throughout	the	day.
    You	may	have	heard	of	the	Six-P	Formula.	It	says,	“Proper	Prior	Planning
Prevents	Poor	Performance.”

27
Prevents	Poor	Performance.”
    When	you	 consider	how	helpful	planning	 can	be	in	increasing	your
productivity	 and	performance,	it	is	amazing	how	few	people	practice	it	 every
single	day.	And	planning	is	really	 quite	simple	to	do.	All	 you	 need	is	a	piece	of
paper	and	a	pen.	The	most	sophisticated	Outlook	system,	computer	app,	or	time
planner	is	based	on	the	same	principle.	It	is	based	on	your	sitting	down	and
making	a	list	of	everything	 you	have	to	do	before	you	begin.


Two	  Extra	  Hours	   per	  Day

Always	work	 from	a	list.	 When	something	new	comes	up,	add	it	to	the	list
before	you	do	it.	You	can	increase	your	productivity	 and	output	by	25	percent	or
more—about	two	hours	a	day—from	 the	first	day	that	you	begin	working
consistently	from	a	list.
    Make	 your	list	the	night	 before	for	the	workday	ahead.	Move	everything	 that
you	have	not	yet	accomplished	onto	your	list	for	 the	coming	day,	and	then	add
everything	that	you	have	to	do	the	next	day.	When	you	make	your	list	 the	night
before,	your	subconscious	mind	will	 work	on	your	 list	all	 night	long	while	 you
sleep.	Often	you	will	 wake	up	with	great	ideas	and	insights	that	you	can	use	to
get	your	job	done	faster	and	better	than	you	had	initially	 thought.
    The	more	time	 you	take	to	make	written	lists	of	 everything	you	have	to	do,	in
advance,	the	more	effective	and	efficient	you	will	 be.


Different	    Lists	  for	  Different	    Purposes

You	need	different	lists	for	 different	 purposes.	First,	you	should	create	a	master
list	on	which	you	 write	down	everything	 you	can	think	of	 that	you	want	to	do
sometime	in	the	future.	This	is	the	place	where	you	capture	every	idea	and	every
new	task	or	responsibility	that	comes	up.	You	can	sort	out	the	items	later.
    Second,	you	should	have	a	monthly	list	that	you	make	at	the	end	of	the	month
for	the	month	ahead.	This	may	contain	items	transferred	from	your	master	list.
    Third,	 you	should	have	a	weekly	list	where	you	plan	your	entire	week	in
advance.	This	is	a	list	that	is	under	construction	as	you	go	through	the	current
week.
    This	 discipline	of	 systematic	time	planning	can	be	very	helpful	to	 you.	Many
people	have	told	me	that	the	habit	of	taking	a	couple	of	hours	at	the	end	of	each
week	to	plan	the	coming	week	has	increased	their	productivity	dramatically	 and
changed	their	lives	completely.	This	technique	will	 work	 for	 you	as	well.
    Finally,	 you	should	transfer	items	from	 your	monthly	 and	weekly	lists	onto

28
your	daily	list.	 These	are	the	specific	activities	that	you	are	going	to	accomplish
the	following	 day.
    As	 you	work	through	the	day,	tick	 off	 the	items	on	your	list	as	you	complete
them.	This	activity	 gives	you	a	visual	picture	of	 accomplishment.	It	generates	a
feeling	of	success	and	forward	motion.	Seeing	yourself	working	 progressively
through	your	list	motivates	 and	energizes	you.	It	raises	your	self-esteem	and
self-respect.	Steady,	visible	progress	propels	you	forward	and	helps	you
overcome	procrastination.


Planning	   a	 Project

When	you	have	a	project	of	any	kind,	begin	by	 making	a	list	of	every	step	that
you	will	 have	to	complete	to	finish	the	project	 from	beginning	to	 end.	Organize
the	steps	by	priority,	what	is	most	important,	 and	sequence,	which	tasks	you
must	complete	in	order.	Lay	out	the	project	in	 front	of	you	 on	paper	or	on	a
computer-based	project	planner	so	that	you	can	see	every	step	and	task.	Then	go
to	work	on	one	task	at	a	time.	You	will	 be	amazed	at	how	much	you	get	done	in
this	way.
    As	 you	work	through	your	 lists,	you	will	 feel	 more	and	more	effective	and
powerful.	You	 will	 feel	more	in	control	 of	your	 life.	You	 will	 be	naturally
motivated	to	do	even	more.	You	will	 think	 better	and	more	creatively,	and	you
will	 get	more	and	better	insights	that	enable	you	to	do	your	work	even	faster.
    As	 you	work	steadily	through	 your	lists,	you	will	  develop	a	sense	of	positive
forward	momentum	that	enables	you	to	overcome	procrastination.	This	feeling
of	progress	gives	you	more	energy	and	keeps	you	going	throughout	the	day.
    One	of	the	most	important	 rules	of	personal	effectiveness	is	the	10/90	Rule.
This	rule	says	that	the	first	10	percent	of	time	that	you	spend	planning	and
organizing	your	work	 before	you	begin	will	 save	you	as	much	as	90	percent	of
the	time	in	getting	the	job	done	once	you	get	started.	You	only	have	to	try	 this
rule	once	to	prove	it	to	yourself.
    When	you	 plan	each	day	in	advance,	you	will	find	 it	much	easier	to	get	going
and	to	keep	going.	The	work	will	 go	faster	and	smoother	than	ever	before.	You
will	 feel	more	powerful	 and	competent.	You	will	 get	more	done	faster	than	you
thought	possible.	Eventually,	you	will	  become	unstoppable.

29
                                 EAT	    THAT	      FROG!


1.	Begin	today	to	plan	every	day,	week,	and	month	in	advance.	Take	a
notepad	or	sheet	of	paper	(or	use	your	smartphone)	and	make	a	list	of
everything	you	have	to	do	in	the	next	twenty-four	hours.	Add	to	your	list	as
new	items	come	up.	Make	a	list	of	all	your	projects,	the	big	multitask	jobs
that	are	important	to	your	future.

2.	Lay	out	all	of	your	major	goals,	projects,	and	tasks	by	priority,	what	is
most	important,	and	by	sequence,	what	has	to	be	done	first,	what	comes
second,	and	so	forth.	Start	with	the	end	in	mind	and	work	backward.
    Think	on	paper!	Always	work	from	a	list.	You’ll	be	amazed	at	how
much	more	productive	you	become	and	how	much	easier	it	is	to	eat	your
frog.

30
3	 Apply	         the	    80/20	      Rule	      to	   Everything


    We	always	have	time	enough,	if	 we	will	 but	use	it	aright.

   JOHANN	WOLFGANG	VON	GOETHE


The	80/20	Rule	is	one	of	the	most	helpful	of	all	concepts	of	time	and	life
management.	It	is	also	called	the	“Pareto	Principle”	after	the	Italian	economist
Vilfredo	Pareto,	who	first	wrote	about	it	in	1895.	Pareto	noticed	that	people	in
his	society	seemed	to	divide	naturally	into	what	he	called	the	“vital	few,”	the	top
20	percent	in	terms	of	money	and	influence,	and	the	“trivial	many,”	the	bottom
80	percent.
    He	later	discovered	that	virtually	all	economic	activity	was	subject	to	this
principle	as	well.	For	example,	this	principle	says	that	20	percent	of	your
activities	will	account	for	80	percent	of	your	results,	20	percent	of	your
customers	will	account	for	80	percent	of	your	sales,	20	percent	of	your	products
or	services	will	account	for	80	percent	of	your	profits,	20	percent	of	your	tasks
will	account	for	80	percent	of	the	value	of	what	you	do,	and	so	on.	This	means
that	if	you	have	a	list	of	ten	items	to	do,	two	of	those	items	will	turn	out	to	be
worth	much	more	than	the	other	eight	items	put	together.

Number	 of	Tasks	versus	 Importance	 of	 Tasks

Here	is	an	interesting	discovery.	Each	of	the	ten	tasks	may	take	the	same	amount
of	time	to	accomplish.	But	one	or	two	of	those	tasks	will	contribute	five	or	ten
times	the	value	of	any	of	the	others.
    Often,	a	single	task	can	be	worth	more	than	all	the	other	nine	items	put
together.	This	task	is	invariably	the	frog	that	you	should	eat	first.
    Can	you	guess	on	which	items	the	average	person	is	most	likely	to
procrastinate?	The	sad	fact	is	that	most	people	procrastinate	on	the	top	10	or	20
percent	of	items	that	are	the	most	valuable	and	important,	the	“vital	few.”	They
busy	themselves	instead	with	the	least	important	80	percent,	the	“trivial	many”
that	contribute	very	little	to	results.

31
that	contribute	very	little	 to	results.


Focus	 on	 Activities,	     Not	 Accomplishments

You	often	see	people	who	appear	to	be	busy	all	day	long	but	seem	to	accomplish
very	little.	 This	is	almost	always	because	they	are	busy	working	on	tasks	that	are
of	low	value	while	 they	are	procrastinating	on	the	one	or	two	activities	 that,	if
they	completed	them	quickly	and	well,	 could	make	a	real	difference	to	their
companies	and	to	their	careers.
    The	most	valuable	tasks	you	can	do	each	day	are	often	the	hardest	and	most
complex.	But	the	payoff	 and	rewards	for	completing	these	tasks	efficiently	can
be	tremendous.	For	this	reason,	you	must	adamantly	refuse	to	work	on	tasks	in
the	bottom	80	percent	while	you	still	 have	tasks	in	the	top	20	percent	left	to	be
done.
    Before	 you	begin	work,	always	ask	yourself,	 “Is	this	task	in	the	top	20
percent	of	my	activities	or	 in	the	bottom	80	percent?”

                   Rule:	 Resist	the	temptation	to	clear	up	small	things	first.

    Remember,	whatever	you	choose	to	do	over	and	over	eventually	becomes	a
habit	that	is	hard	to	break.	If	you	choose	to	start	your	day	working	 on	low-value
tasks,	you	will	soon	develop	the	habit	of	 always	starting	and	working	on	low-
value	tasks.	This	is	not	the	kind	of	habit	you	 want	to	develop	or	keep.	Low-value
tasks	are	like	rabbits;	they	multiply	 continually.	 You	never	get	caught	up.
    The	hardest	part	of	any	important	 task	is	getting	started	on	it	in	the	first	place.
Once	you	actually	begin	work	 on	a	valuable	task,	you	will	 be	naturally
motivated	to	continue.	A	 part	of	your	mind	 loves	to	be	busy	working	on
significant	tasks	that	can	really	make	a	difference.	Your	 job	is	to	feed	this	part	of
your	mind	continually.


Motivate	    Yourself

Just	thinking	about	starting	and	finishing	an	important	 task	motivates	you	and
helps	you	overcome	procrastination.	The	fact	is,	the	time	required	to	complete	an
important	job	is	often	 the	same	as	the	time	required	to	do	an	unimportant	job.
The	difference	is	that	you	get	a	tremendous	feeling	of	pride	and	satisfaction	from
completing	something	valuable	and	significant.	 However,	when	you	complete	a
low-value	task	using	the	same	amount	of	time	and	energy,	you	get	little	or	no
satisfaction.

32
    Time	 management	is	really	life	management,	personal	management.	It	is
really	taking	control	 of	the	sequence	of	events.	Time	management	is	taking
control	over	what	you	do	next.	And	 you	are	always	free	to	choose	the	task	that
you	will	 do	next.	Your	ability	 to	 choose	between	the	important	and	the
unimportant	is	the	key	determinant	of	your	 success	in	life	and	work.
    Effective,	 productive	 people	discipline	themselves	to	start	on	the	most
important	task	that	is	before	them.	They	force	themselves	to	eat	that	frog,
whatever	it	is.	As	a	result,	they	accomplish	vastly	 more	than	the	average	person
and	are	much	happier	as	a	result.	This	should	be	your	way	of	working	as	well.












                                        EAT	     THAT	       FROG!


    1.	Make	a	list	of	all	 the	key	goals,	activities,	projects,	and	responsibilities	 in
    your	life	 today.	Which	of	 them	are,	or	could	be,	in	the	top	10	or	20	percent
    of	tasks	that	represent,	or	could	represent,	80	or	90	percent	of	your	results?

    2.	Resolve	today	that	you	are	going	to	spend	more	and	more	of	your	time
    working	 in	those	few	areas	that	can	really	make	a	difference	in	your	life
    and	career	and	spend	less	and	less	time	on	lower-value	activities.

33
4	 Consider	           the	    Consequences


    Every	great	man	has	become	great,	every	successful	man	has
    succeeded,	in	proportion	as	he	has	confined	his	powers	to	one
    particular	 channel.

   ORISON	SWETT	MARDEN


The	mark	of	the	superior	thinker	is	his	or	her	ability	to	accurately	predict	the
consequences	of	doing	or	not	doing	something.	The	potential	consequences	of
any	task	or	activity	are	the	key	determinants	of	how	important	a	task	really	is	to
you	and	to	your	company.	This	way	of	evaluating	the	significance	of	a	task	is
how	you	determine	what	your	next	frog	really	is.
    Dr.	Edward	Banfield	of	Harvard	University,	after	more	than	fifty	years	of
research,	concluded	that	a	“long	time	perspective”	is	the	most	accurate	single
predictor	of	upward	social	and	economic	mobility	in	America.	A	long	time
perspective	turns	out	to	be	more	important	than	family	background,	education,
race,	intelligence,	connections,	or	virtually	any	other	single	factor	in	determining
your	success	in	life	and	at	work.
    Your	attitude	toward	time,	your	“time	horizon,”	has	an	enormous	impact	on
your	behavior	and	your	choices.	People	who	take	a	long-term	view	of	their	lives
and	careers	always	seem	to	make	much	better	decisions	about	their	time	and
activities	than	people	who	give	very	little	thought	to	the	future.

           Rule:	Long-term	thinking	improves	short-term	decision	making.

    Successful	people	have	a	clear	future	orientation.	They	think	five,	ten,	and
twenty	years	out	into	the	future.	They	analyze	their	choices	and	behaviors	in	the
present	to	make	sure	that	what	they	are	doing	today	is	consistent	with	the	long-
term	future	that	they	desire.

Make	Better	 Decisions	 about	Time

34
Make	 Better	  Decisions	 about	  Time

In	your	work,	having	a	clear	idea	of	what	is	really	important	to	you	in	the	long
term	makes	it	much	easier	for	you	to	make	better	decisions	about	your	priorities
in	the	short	term.
    By	definition,	something	that	is	important	has	long-term	potential
consequences.	Something	that	is	unimportant	has	few	or	no	long-term	potential
consequences.	Before	starting	on	anything,	you	should	always	ask	yourself,
“What	are	the	potential	consequences	of	doing	or	not	doing	this	task?”


          Rule:	Future	intent	influences	and	often	determines	present	actions.


    The	clearer	you	are	about	your	future	intentions,	the	greater	influence	that
clarity	will	have	on	what	you	do	in	the	moment.	With	a	clear	long-term	vision,
you	are	much	more	capable	of	evaluating	an	activity	in	the	present	to	ensure	that
it	is	consistent	with	where	you	truly	want	to	end	up.


Think	  about	 the	 Long	  Term

Successful	people	are	those	who	are	willing	to	delay	gratification	and	make
sacrifices	in	the	short	term	so	that	they	can	enjoy	far	greater	rewards	in	the	long
term.	Unsuccessful	people,	on	the	other	hand,	think	more	about	short-term
pleasure	and	immediate	gratification	while	giving	little	thought	to	the	long-term
future.
    Denis	Waitley,	a	motivational	speaker,	says,	“Losers	try	to	escape	from	their
fears	and	drudgery	with	activities	that	are	tension-relieving.	Winners	are
motivated	by	their	desires	toward	activities	that	are	goal-achieving.”
    For	example,	coming	into	work	earlier,	reading	regularly	in	your	field,	taking
courses	to	improve	your	skills,	and	focusing	on	high-value	tasks	in	your	work
will	all	combine	to	have	an	enormous	positive	impact	on	your	future.	On	the
other	hand,	coming	into	work	at	the	last	moment,	reading	the	newspaper,
drinking	coffee,	and	socializing	with	your	coworkers	may	seem	fun	and
enjoyable	in	the	short	term	but	inevitably	leads	to	lack	of	promotion,
underachievement,	and	frustration	in	the	long	term.
    If	a	task	or	activity	has	large	potential	positive	consequences,	make	it	a	top
priority	and	get	started	on	it	immediately.	If	something	can	have	large	potential
negative	consequences	if	it	is	not	done	quickly	and	well,	that	becomes	a	top
priority	as	well.	Whatever	your	frog	is,	resolve	to	gulp	it	down	first	thing.

35
    Motivation	  requires	motive.	The	greater	the	potential	positive	impact	that	an
action	or	behavior	of	yours	can	have	on	your	life,	 once	you	define	it	clearly,	 the
more	motivated	you	will	 be	to	overcome	procrastination	and	get	it	done	quickly.
    Keep	yourself	 focused	and	forward	moving	by	 continually	 starting	and
completing	those	tasks	that	can	make	a	major	difference	to	your	company	and	to
your	future.
    The	time	 is	going	to	pass	anyway.	The	only	question	is	how	you	use	it	and
where	you	are	going	to	end	up	at	the	end	of	the	weeks	and	months	that	pass.	And
where	you	end	up	is	largely	a	matter	of	the	amount	of	consideration	you	give	 to
the	likely	consequences	of	your	actions	in	the	short	term.
    Thinking	 continually	 about	the	potential	consequences	of	your	choices,
decisions,	and	behaviors	is	one	of	the	very	best	ways	to	determine	your	true
priorities	in	 your	work	 and	personal	life.


Obey	 the	  Law	  of	 Forced	   Efficiency

The	Law	of	Forced	Efficiency	 says,	“There	is	never	enough	time	to	do
everything,	but	there	is	always	enough	time	to	do	the	most	important	thing.”	 Put
another	way,	you	cannot	eat	every	tadpole	and	frog	in	the	pond,	but	you	can	eat
the	biggest	and	ugliest	one,	and	that	will	be	enough,	at	least	for	the	time	being.
    When	you’re	 running	out	 of	time	and	know	that	the	consequences	of	not
completing	a	key	task	or	project	can	be	really	serious,	you	always	seem	to	find
the	time	to	get	it	done,	often	at	the	very	last	minute.	You	 start	early,	you	stay
late,	and	you	drive	yourself	to	complete	the	job	rather	than	face	the
unpleasantness	that	would	follow	if	 you	didn’t	 complete	it	within	 the	time	limit.


       Rule:	There	will	 never	be	enough	time	to	do	everything	 you	have	to	do.


    The	average	person	in	business	today,	especially	a	manager	in	the	age	of
cutbacks,	is	working	at	110	to	130	percent	of	capacity.	And	 the	jobs	and
responsibilities	just	keep	piling	 up.	We	all	have	stacks	of	reading	material	we
still	have	to	go	through.	Many	 people	have	hundreds	of	hours	of	reading	and
projects	backlogged	at	home	and	at	the	office.
    What	 this	means	is	that	you	will	never	be	caught	up.	Get	that	wishful	 idea	out
of	your	mind.	 All	 you	can	hope	for	is	to	be	on	top	of	your	most	important
responsibilities.	The	others	will	 just	have	to	wait.


Deadlines	   Are	  an	 Excuse

36
Deadlines	   Are	  an	 Excuse

Many	people	say	that	they	work	better	under	the	pressure	of	deadlines.
Unfortunately,	years	of	research	indicate	that	this	is	seldom	true.1
    Under	the	pressure	of	deadlines,	often	self-created	through	procrastination,
people	suffer	greater	stress,	make	more	mistakes,	and	have	to	redo	more	tasks
than	under	any	other	conditions.	Often	the	mistakes	that	people	make	when
working	under	tight	 deadlines	lead	to	defects	and	cost	overruns	that	cause
substantial	financial	losses	in	the	long	term.	Sometimes	a	job	actually	takes
much	longer	to	complete	when	people	rush	to	get	it	done	at	the	last	minute	and
then	have	to	redo	it.
    It	 is	much	better	to	plan	your	time	carefully	 in	advance	and	then	build	in	a
sizable	buffer	to	compensate	for	unexpected	delays	and	diversions.	However
much	time	you	think	 a	task	will	take,	add	on	another	20	percent	or	more	as
insurance.	Or	make	a	game	of	getting	the	job	done	well	in	advance	of	the
deadline.	You	will	 be	amazed	at	how	much	more	relaxed	you	are	and	how	much
better	a	job	you	do	when	you	are	on	top	of	your	most	important	 tasks.


Three	  Questions	   for	  Maximum	     Productivity

You	can	use	three	questions	on	a	regular	basis	to	keep	yourself	focused	on
completing	your	most	important	 tasks	on	schedule.	The	first	question	is,	“What
are	my	highest-value	activities?”	 Put	another	way,	what	are	the	biggest	frogs
that	you	have	to	eat	to	make	the	greatest	contribution	to	your	organization?	To
your	family?	 To	your	life	 in	general?
    This	 is	one	of	the	most	important	questions	you	can	ever	ask	and	answer.
What	are	your	highest-value	activities?	First,	think	 this	through	for	 yourself.
Then,	ask	your	boss.	Ask	your	coworkers	and	subordinates.	Ask	your	friends
and	family.	Like	 focusing	the	lens	of	a	camera,	you	must	be	crystal	clear	about
your	highest-value	activities	before	you	 begin	work.
    The	second	question	you	can	ask	continually	is,	“What	 can	I	 and	only	I	do,
that	if	done	well,	will	 make	a	real	difference?”	 This	 question	came	from	the	late
Peter	Drucker,	the	management	guru.	It	is	one	of	the	most	important	of	all
questions	for	achieving	personal	effectiveness.	What	can	you	and	only	you	do
that	if	done	well	 can	make	a	real	difference?
    This	 is	something	that	only	you	can	do.	If	 you	don’t	do	it,	 it	won’t	 be	done	by
someone	else.	But	if	you	do	do	it,	and	you	do	it	well,	 it	can	really	 make	a
difference	to	your	life	 and	your	career.	What	is	this	particular	frog	 for	you?
    Every	 hour	of	every	day,	you	can	ask	yourself	this	question	and	come	up	with
a	specific	answer.	Your	job	is	to	be	clear	about	the	answer	and	then	to	start	and

37
a	specific	answer.	Your	job	is	to	be	clear	about	the	answer	and	then	to	start	and
work	on	this	task	before	anything	else.
    The	third	 question	you	can	ask	is,	“What	is	the	most	valuable	use	of	my	time
right	now?”	 In	 other	words,	“What	 is	my	biggest	frog	of	 all	at	this	moment?”
    This	 is	the	core	question	of	time	management.	Answering	this	question
correctly	is	the	key	to	overcoming	 procrastination	and	becoming	a	highly
productive	person.	Every	hour	of	every	day,	one	task	represents	the	most
valuable	use	of	your	time	at	that	moment.	Your	job	 is	to	ask	yourself	this
question,	over	and	over	again,	and	to	always	be	working	on	the	answer	to	it,
whatever	it	is.
    Do	 first	things	first	 and	second	things	not	at	all.	As	Goethe	said,	“The	things
that	matter	most	must	never	be	at	the	mercy	of	the	things	that	matter	least.”
    The	more	accurate	your	answers	are	to	these	three	questions,	the	easier	it	will
be	for	you	to	set	clear	priorities,	to	overcome	procrastination,	 and	to	get	started
on	that	one	activity	that	represents	the	most	valuable	use	of	your	time.












                                          EAT	    THAT	      FROG!


    1.	Review	your	list	 of	tasks,	activities,	and	projects	regularly.	 Continually
    ask	yourself,	“Which	 one	project	or	activity,	 if	 I	did	it	 in	an	excellent	and
    timely	fashion,	 would	have	the	greatest	positive	consequences	in	my	work
    or	personal	life?”

    2.	Determine	the	most	important	thing	 you	could	be	doing	every	hour	of
    every	day,	and	then	discipline	yourself	to	work	 continually	 on	the	most
    valuable	use	of	your	time.	What	is	this	 for	you	right	 now?
        Whatever	 it	is	that	can	help	you	the	most,	set	it	as	a	goal,	make	a	plan	to
    achieve	it,	and	go	to	work	on	your	 plan	immediately.	Remember	the
    wonderful	words	 of	Goethe:	“Only	 engage,	and	the	mind	grows	heated.

38
Begin	it,	and	the	work	will	be	completed.”

39
5	 Practice	          Creative	           Procrastination


    Make	time	 for	getting	big	 tasks	done	every	day.	Plan	your	daily
    workload	 in	advance.	Single	out	the	relatively	few	 small	jobs	that
    absolutely	must	be	done	immediately	in	 the	morning.	Then	go
    directly	 to	the	big	tasks	and	pursue	them	to	completion.

   BOARDROOM	REPORTS


Creative	procrastination	is	one	of	the	most	effective	of	all	personal	performance
techniques.	It	can	change	your	life.
    The	fact	is	that	you	can’t	do	everything	that	you	have	to	do.	You	have	to
procrastinate	on	something.	Therefore,	deliberately	and	consciously
procrastinate	on	small	tasks.	Put	off	eating	smaller	or	less	ugly	frogs.	Eat	the
biggest	and	ugliest	frogs	before	anything	else.	Do	the	worst	first!
    Everyone	procrastinates.	The	difference	between	high	performers	and	low
performers	is	largely	determined	by	what	they	choose	to	procrastinate	on.
    Since	you	must	procrastinate	anyway,	decide	today	to	procrastinate	on	low-
value	activities.	Decide	to	procrastinate	on,	outsource,	delegate,	and	eliminate
those	activities	that	don’t	make	much	of	a	contribution	to	your	life	in	any	case.
Get	rid	of	the	tadpoles	and	focus	on	the	frogs.

Priorities	 versus	 Posteriorities

Here	is	a	key	point.	To	set	proper	priorities,	you	must	set	posteriorities	as	well.
A	priority	is	something	that	you	do	more	of	and	sooner,	while	a	posteriority	is
something	that	you	do	less	of	and	later,	if	at	all.

  Rule:	You	can	get	your	time	and	your	life	under	control	only	to	the	degree	to
                        which	you	discontinue	lower-value	activities.

40
    One	of	the	most	powerful	 of	all	 words	in	time	management	is	the	word	no!
Say	it	politely.	 Say	it	clearly	so	that	there	are	no	misunderstandings.	Say	it
regularly	as	a	normal	part	of	your	time	 management	vocabulary.
    Warren	Buffett,	 one	of	the	richest	men	in	the	world,	 was	once	asked	his	secret
of	success.	He	replied,	“Simple.	I	just	say	no	to	everything	 that	is	not	absolutely
vital	to	me	at	the	moment.”
    Say	no	to	anything	 that	is	not	a	high-value	use	of	your	time	and	your	life.	 Say
no	graciously	but	firmly	 to	avoid	 agreeing	to	something	against	your	will.	 Say	it
early	and	say	it	often.	Remember	that	you	have	no	spare	time.	As	we	say,	“Your
dance	card	is	full.”
    For	you	 to	do	something	new,	you	must	complete	or	stop	doing	something
old.	Getting	in	requires	getting	 out.	Picking	up	means	putting	down.
    Creative	procrastination	 is	the	act	of	thoughtfully	 and	deliberately	deciding
upon	the	exact	things	you	are	not	going	to	do	right	now,	if	 ever.


Procrastinate	     on	 Purpose

Most	people	engage	in	unconscious	procrastination.	They	procrastinate	without
thinking	about	it.	 As	a	result,	they	procrastinate	on	the	big,	valuable,	important
tasks	that	can	have	significant	long-term	consequences	in	their	lives	and	careers.
You	must	avoid	this	common	tendency	at	all	costs.
    Your	 job	is	to	deliberately	 procrastinate	on	tasks	that	are	of	low	value	so	that
you	have	more	time	for	tasks	that	can	make	a	big	difference	in	your	life	 and
work.	Continually	 review	 your	duties	and	responsibilities	to	identify	 time-
consuming	tasks	and	activities	that	you	can	abandon	with	no	real	loss.	This	is	an
ongoing	responsibility	 for	you	that	never	ends.
    For	example,	a	friend	 of	mine	was	an	avid	golfer	when	he	was	single.	He
liked	to	golf	 three	or	four	times	a	week,	three	to	four	hours	each	time.	Over	a
period	of	years,	he	started	a	business,	got	married,	and	had	two	children.	But	he
still	played	golf	 three	to	four	times	a	week	until	 he	finally	 realized	that	his	time
on	the	golf	course	was	causing	him	enormous	stress	at	home	and	at	the	office.
Only	by	abandoning	most	of	his	golf	 games	could	he	get	his	life	back	under
control.	And	he	did.	 He	cut	back	to	one	round	of	golf	per	week	and	transformed
his	life,	especially	his	home	life.


Set	Posteriorities	      on	 Time-Consuming	      Activities

Continually	 review	your	life	 and	work	to	find	 time-consuming	 tasks	and

41
activities	that	you	can	abandon.	Cut	down	on	television	watching	 and	Internet
surfing	and	instead	spend	the	time	with	your	family,	 read,	exercise,	or	do
something	else	that	enhances	the	quality	of	your	life.
    Look	 at	your	work	 activities	and	identify	 the	tasks	that	you	could	delegate	or
eliminate	to	free	up	more	time	for	 the	work	that	really	 counts.	Begin	today	to
practice	creative	procrastination.	Set	posteriorities	wherever	and	whenever	you
can.	This	decision	alone	can	enable	you	to	get	your	time	and	your	life	under
control.












                                          EAT	    THAT	      FROG!


    1.	Practice	“zero-based	thinking”	 in	every	part	of	your	 life.	Ask	 yourself
    continually,	 “If	 I	were	not	doing	this	 already,	knowing	what	I	 now	know,
    would	I	 start	doing	it	again	today?”	If	 it	is	something	you	 would	not	start
    again	today,	knowing	what	you	 now	know,	it	 is	a	prime	candidate	for
    abandonment	or	creative	procrastination.

    2.	Examine	each	of	your	personal	and	work	activities	 and	evaluate	it	based
    on	your	current	situation.	Select	at	least	one	activity	to	abandon
    immediately	or	 at	least	deliberately	put	off	until	 your	more	important	 goals
    have	been	achieved.

42
6	 Use	    the	     ABCDE	          Method	          Continually


    The	first	 law	of	success	is	concentration—to	bend	all	the	energies
    to	one	point,	and	to	go	directly	 to	that	point,	looking	 neither	to	the
    right	 nor	to	the	left.

   WILLIAM	MATHEWS


The	more	thought	you	invest	in	planning	and	setting	priorities	before	you	begin,
the	more	important	things	you	will	do	and	the	faster	you	will	get	them	done	once
you	get	started.	The	more	important	and	valuable	a	task	is	to	you,	the	more
likely	you	will	be	motivated	to	overcome	procrastination	and	launch	yourself
into	the	job.
    The	ABCDE	Method	is	a	powerful	priority	setting	technique	that	you	can	use
every	single	day.	This	technique	is	so	simple	and	effective	that	it	can,	all	by
itself,	make	you	one	of	the	most	efficient	and	effective	people	in	your	field.

Think	 on	Paper

The	power	of	this	technique	lies	in	its	simplicity.	Here’s	how	it	works:	You	start
with	a	list	of	everything	you	have	to	do	for	the	coming	day.	Think	on	paper.
    You	then	place	an	A,	B,	C,	D,	or	E	next	to	each	item	on	your	list	before	you
begin	the	first	task.
    An	“A”	item	is	defined	as	something	that	is	very	important,	something	that
you	must	do.	This	is	a	task	that	will	have	serious	positive	or	negative
consequences	if	you	do	it	or	fail	to	do	it,	like	visiting	a	key	customer	or	finishing
a	report	that	your	boss	needs	for	an	upcoming	board	meeting.	These	items	are
the	frogs	of	your	life.
    If	you	have	more	than	one	A	task,	you	prioritize	these	tasks	by	writing	“A-1,”
“A-2,”	“A-3,”	and	so	on	in	front	of	each	item.	Your	A-1	task	is	your	biggest,
ugliest	frog	of	all.

43
”Shoulds”	   versus	 “Musts”

A	“B”	 item	is	defined	as	a	task	that	you	should	do.	But	it	has	only	mild
consequences.	These	are	the	tadpoles	of	your	work	life.	This	means	that
someone	may	be	unhappy	or	inconvenienced	if	you	don’t	do	one	of	these	tasks,
but	it	is	nowhere	as	important	as	an	A	task.	Returning	an	unimportant	telephone
message	or	reviewing	your	e-mail	would	be	a	B	task.
    The	rule	is	that	you	should	never	do	a	B	task	when	an	A	task	is	left	undone.
You	should	never	be	distracted	by	a	tadpole	when	a	big	frog	is	sitting	there
waiting	to	be	eaten.
    A	“C”	 task	is	defined	as	something	that	would	be	nice	to	do	but	for	which
there	are	no	consequences	at	all,	whether	you	do	it	or	not.	C	tasks	include
phoning	a	friend,	having	coffee	or	lunch	with	a	coworker,	and	completing	some
personal	business	during	work	hours.	These	sorts	of	activities	have	no	effect	at
all	on	your	work	life.
    A	“D”	 task	is	defined	as	something	you	can	delegate	to	someone	else.	The
rule	is	that	you	should	delegate	everything	that	someone	else	can	do	so	you	can
free	up	more	time	for	the	A	tasks	that	only	you	can	do.
    An	“E”	 task	is	defined	as	something	that	you	can	eliminate	altogether,	and	it
won’t	make	any	real	difference.	This	may	be	a	task	that	was	important	at	one
time	but	is	no	longer	relevant	to	you	or	anyone	else.	Often	it	is	something	you
continue	to	do	out	of	habit	or	because	you	enjoy	it.	But	every	minute	that	you
spend	on	an	E	task	is	time	taken	away	from	an	A	task	or	activity	that	can	make	a
real	difference	in	your	life.
    After	you	have	applied	the	ABCDE	Method	to	your	list,	you	will	be
completely	organized	and	ready	to	get	more	important	things	done	faster.


Take	 Action	  Immediately

The	key	to	making	this	ABCDE	Method	work	is	for	you	to	now	discipline
yourself	to	start	immediately	on	your	A-1	task	and	then	stay	at	it	until	it	is
complete.	Use	your	willpower	to	get	going	and	stay	going	on	this	one	job,	the
most	important	single	task	you	could	possibly	be	doing.	Eat	the	whole	frog	and
don’t	stop	until	it’s	finished	completely.
    Your	ability	to	think	through	and	analyze	your	work	list	and	determine	your
A-1	task	is	the	springboard	to	higher	levels	of	accomplishment	and	greater	self-
esteem,	self-respect,	and	personal	pride.	When	you	develop	the	habit	of
concentrating	on	your	A-1,	most	important,	activity—on	eating	your	frog—you

44
will	start	getting	more	done	than	any	two	or	three	people	around	you.











                                     EAT	    THAT	      FROG!


   1.	Review	your	work	list	right	now	and	put	an	A,	B,	C,	D,	or	E	next	to	each
   task	or	activity.	Select	your	A-1	job	or	project	and	begin	on	it	immediately.
   Discipline	yourself	to	do	nothing	else	until	this	one	job	is	complete.

   2.	Practice	this	ABCDE	Method	every	day	for	the	next	month	on	every
   work	or	project	list	before	you	begin	work.	After	a	month,	you	will	have
   developed	the	habit	of	setting	and	working	on	your	highest-priority	tasks,
   and	your	future	will	be	assured!

45
7	 Focus	       on	   Key	      Result	        Areas


    When	every	physical	and	mental	resource	is	focused,	one’s	power
    to	solve	a	problem	multiplies	 tremendously.

   NORMAN	VINCENT	PEALE


“Why	am	I	on	the	payroll?”	This	is	one	of	the	most	important	questions	you	can
ever	ask	and	answer,	over	and	over	again,	throughout	your	career.
    As	it	happens,	most	people	are	not	sure	exactly	why	they	are	on	the	payroll.
But	if	you	are	not	crystal	clear	about	why	you	are	on	the	payroll	and	what	results
you	have	been	hired	to	accomplish,	it	is	very	hard	for	you	to	perform	at	your
best,	get	paid	more,	and	get	promoted	faster.
    In	simple	terms,	you	have	been	hired	to	get	specific	results.	A	wage	or	a
salary	is	a	payment	for	a	specific	quality	and	quantity	of	work	that	can	be
combined	with	the	work	of	others	to	create	a	product	or	service	that	customers
are	willing	to	pay	for.
    Your	job	can	be	broken	down	into	about	five	to	seven	key	result	areas,
seldom	more.	These	represent	the	results	that	you	absolutely,	positively	have	to
get	to	fulfill	your	responsibilities	and	make	your	maximum	contribution	to	your
organization.
    A	key	result	area	is	defined	as	something	for	which	you	are	completely
responsible.	If	you	don’t	do	it,	it	doesn’t	get	done.	A	key	result	area	is	an	activity
that	is	under	your	control.	It	produces	an	output	that	becomes	an	input	or	a
contributing	factor	to	the	work	of	others.
    Key	result	areas	are	similar	to	the	vital	functions	of	the	body,	such	as	those
indicated	by	blood	pressure,	heart	rate,	respiratory	rate,	and	brain-wave	activity.
An	absence	of	any	one	of	these	vital	functions	leads	to	the	death	of	the	organism.
By	the	same	token,	your	failure	to	perform	in	a	critical	result	area	of	your	work
can	lead	to	the	end	of	your	job	as	well.

The	Big	Seven	in	 Management	 and	Sales

46
The	 Big	  Seven	 in	 Management	     and	  Sales

The	key	result	areas	of	management	are	planning,	organizing,	staffing,
delegating,	supervising,	measuring,	and	reporting.	These	are	the	areas	in	which	a
manager	must	get	results	to	be	successful	in	his	or	her	area	of	responsibility.	A
weakness	in	any	one	of	these	areas	can	lead	to	underachievement	and	failure	as	a
manager.
    The	key	result	 areas	of	sales	are	prospecting,	building	rapport	and	trust,
identifying	 needs,	presenting	persuasively,	answering	objections,	closing	the
sale,	and	getting	resales	and	referrals.	Poor	performance	in	any	one	of	these	key
skills	can	lead	to	lower	sales	and	sometimes	the	failure	of	a	salesperson.
    Whatever	you	 do,	you	must	have	certain	essential	skills	for	you	to	do	your	 job
in	an	excellent	fashion.	These	demands	are	constantly	changing.	You	have
already	developed	core	competencies	that	make	it	possible	for	you	to	do	your
job	in	the	first	 place.	But	certain	key	results	are	central	to	your	work	and
determine	your	success	or	failure	in	your	job.	What	 are	they?


Clarity	   Is	 Essential

The	starting	point	of	high	 performance	is	for	you	to	identify	 the	key	result	areas
of	your	work.	 Discuss	them	with	your	boss.	Make	a	list	of	 your	most	important
output	responsibilities,	and	make	sure	that	the	people	above	you,	on	the	same
level	as	you,	and	below	you	are	in	agreement	with	it.
    For	example,	for	 a	salesperson,	getting	qualified	appointments	is	a	key	result
area.	This	activity	is	the	key	to	the	entire	sales	process.	Closing	a	sale	is	also	a
key	result	area.	When	the	sale	is	made,	it	triggers	the	activities	of	many	other
people	to	produce	and	deliver	the	product	or	service.
    For	a	company	owner	or	key	 executive,	negotiating	a	bank	loan	may	be	a	key
result	area.	Hiring	the	right	people	and	delegating	effectively	 are	both	key	result
areas.	For	a	receptionist	or	secretary,	typing	letters	and	answering	the	phone	and
transferring	callers	quickly	 and	efficiently	 are	defined	as	key	result	areas.
People’s	ability	to	 perform	these	tasks	quickly	and	efficiently	 largely	determines
their	pay	and	promotability.


Give	 Yourself	    a	 Grade

Once	you	have	determined	your	key	result	areas,	the	second	step	is	for	you	to
grade	yourself	on	a	scale	of	one	to	ten	(with	one	being	the	lowest	and	ten	being
the	highest)	in	each	of	those	areas.	Where	are	you	strong	and	where	are	you
weak?	Where	are	you	getting	excellent	results	and	where	are	you

47
weak?	Where	are	you	getting	excellent	results	and	where	are	you
underperforming?


 Rule:	Your	 weakest	key	result	area	sets	the	height	at	which	you	can	use	all	your
                                             other	skills	and	abilities.


    This	 rule	says	that	although	you	could	be	exceptional	in	six	out	of	 your	seven
key	result	areas,	poor	performance	in	the	seventh	area	will	hold	you	back	and
determine	how	much	you	achieve	with	all	 your	other	skills.	 This	weakness	will
act	as	a	drag	on	your	effectiveness	and	be	a	constant	source	of	friction	and
frustration.
    For	example,	delegating	is	a	key	result	area	for	a	manager.	This	skill	 is	the
key	leverage	point	that	enables	a	manager	to	manage	and	to	get	results	through
others.	A	manager	who	cannot	delegate	properly	is	held	back	from	using	all	his
or	her	other	skills	at	the	maximum	levels	 of	effectiveness.	Poor	delegation	skills
alone	can	lead	to	failure	in	the	job.


Poor	 Performance	     Produces	   Procrastination

One	of	the	major	reasons	for	procrastination	in	the	workplace	is	that	people
avoid	jobs	and	activities	in	those	areas	where	they	have	performed	poorly	in	the
past.	Instead	of	setting	a	goal	and	making	a	plan	to	improve	in	a	particular	area,
most	people	avoid	that	area	altogether,	which	just	makes	the	situation	worse.
    The	reverse	of	this	is	that	the	better	you	become	in	a	particular	 skill	area,	the
more	motivated	you	will	 be	to	perform	that	function,	 the	less	you	will
procrastinate,	and	the	more	determined	you	will	be	to	get	the	job	finished.
    The	fact	is	 that	everybody	has	both	strengths	and	weaknesses.	Refuse	to
rationalize,	justify,	 or	defend	your	areas	of	weakness.	Instead,	identify	them
clearly.	Set	a	goal	and	make	a	plan	to	become	very	good	in	each	of	those	areas.
Just	think!	You	 may	be	only	one	critical	skill	 away	from	 top	performance	at	your
job.


The	 Great	   Question

Here	is	one	of	the	greatest	questions	you	will	ever	ask	and	answer.	“What	one
skill,	if	 I	developed	and	did	it	 in	an	excellent	fashion,	would	have	the	greatest
positive	impact	on	my	career?”
    You	 should	use	this	question	to	guide	your	career	for	the	rest	of	your	life.
Look	into	 yourself	for	the	answer.	You	probably	 know	what	it	 is.

48
Look	into	yourself	 for	the	answer.	You	probably	 know	what	it	 is.
    Ask	 your	boss	this	question.	Ask	your	coworkers.	Ask	 your	friends	and	your
family.	Whatever	 the	answer	is,	go	to	work	to	bring	up	your	 performance	in	this
area.
    The	good	news	is	that	all	business	skills	are	learnable.	If	anyone	else	is
excellent	in	that	particular	key	 result	area,	this	is	proof	that	you	can	become
excellent	as	well,	if	you	 decide	to.
    One	of	the	fastest	and	best	ways	to	stop	procrastinating	and	get	more	things
done	faster	is	for	you	to	become	absolutely	excellent	in	your	key	 result	areas.
This	can	be	as	important	as	anything	else	you	do	in	your	life	or	your	 career.












                                        EAT	     THAT	       FROG!


    1.	Identify	 the	key	result	areas	of	your	work.	What	are	they?	Write	 down
    the	key	results	you	have	to	get	to	do	your	job	in	an	excellent	fashion.	Give
    yourself	a	grade	from	one	to	ten	on	each	one.	And	then	determine	the	one
    key	skill	 that,	if	you	did	 it	in	an	excellent	manner,	would	 help	you	the	most
    in	your	work.

    2.	Take	this	list	to	your	 boss	and	discuss	it	with	him	or	her.	Invite	 honest
    feedback	and	appraisal.	You	can	only	get	better	when	you	are	open	to	the
    constructive	input	of	 other	people.	Discuss	your	conclusions	with	your	staff
    and	coworkers.	Talk	them	over	with	 your	spouse.
        Make	 a	habit	of	doing	this	analysis	regularly	 for	the	rest	of	your	career.
    Never	stop	improving.	 This	decision	alone	can	change	your	life.

49
8	 Apply	         the	    Law	      of	   Three


    Do	what	 you	can,	with	what	you	have,	where	you	are.

   THEODORE	ROOSEVELT


Three	core	tasks	that	you	perform	contain	most	of	the	value	that	you	contribute
to	your	business	or	organization.	Your	ability	to	accurately	identify	these	three
key	tasks	and	then	to	focus	on	them	most	of	the	time	is	essential	for	you	to
perform	at	your	best.	Let	me	tell	you	a	true	story.
    Three	months	after	her	first	full-day	coaching	session	with	me	in	San	Diego,
Cynthia	told	the	group	a	story:	“When	I	came	here	ninety	days	ago,	you	claimed
that	you	would	show	me	how	to	double	my	income	and	my	time	off	within
twelve	months.	This	sounded	completely	unrealistic,	but	I	was	willing	to	give	it
a	try.
    “On	the	first	day,	you	asked	me	to	write	down	a	list	of	everything	that	I	did
over	the	course	of	a	week	or	a	month.	I	came	up	with	seventeen	tasks	that	I	was
responsible	for.	My	problem	was	that	I	was	completely	overwhelmed	with	work.
I	was	working	ten	to	twelve	hours	per	day,	six	days	per	week,	and	not	spending
enough	time	with	my	husband	and	my	two	young	children.	But	I	didn’t	see	any
way	out.
    “I	had	been	working	for	eight	years	for	a	fast-growing	entrepreneurial
company	in	the	high-tech	area,	but	there	always	seemed	to	be	an	overwhelming
amount	of	work	to	do	and	never	enough	time.”

One	Thing	 All	 Day	Long

She	continued	with	her	story.	“Once	I	had	made	this	list,	you	told	me	to	ask	this
question:	‘If	you	could	do	only	one	thing	on	this	list	all	day	long,	which	one	task
would	contribute	the	greatest	value	to	your	company?’	Once	I	had	identified	that
task,	which	was	quite	easy,	I	put	a	circle	around	that	number.
    “You	then	asked,	‘If	you	could	do	only	one	more	thing	on	your	list	of	key

50
tasks,	which	would	be	the	second	activity	that	contributes	the	most	value	to	your
company?’
    “Once	 I	had	identified	 the	second	most	important	task,	you	asked	me	the
same	question	with	regard	to	the	third	most	important	task.
    “You	 then	said	something	that	shocked	me	at	the	time.	You	said	that	fully	 90
percent	of	the	value	that	you	contribute	to	your	company	is	contained	in	 those
three	tasks,	whatever	they	are.	Everything	else	you	do	is	either	a	support	task	or
a	complementary	task	that	could	probably	be	delegated,	downsized,	outsourced,
or	eliminated.”


Take	  Immediate	    Action

Cynthia	continued	with	 her	story.	“As	 I	looked	at	the	three	tasks,	I	realized	that
these	were	the	three	things	I	did	that	contributed	the	most	value	to	my	company.
This	was	on	a	Friday.	On	Monday	morning	 at	ten	o’clock,	I	 met	with	my	 boss
and	explained	what	I	had	discovered.	I	said	that	I	needed	his	help	in	delegating
and	outsourcing	all	my	work	 except	those	three	key	tasks.	I	felt	that	if	I	could
work	on	those	three	tasks	exclusively,	all	day	long,	I	 could	more	than	double	my
contribution	to	the	company.	Then	I	 told	him	that	if	 I	doubled	my	 contribution,	 I
would	like	 to	be	paid	twice	as	much.”
    She	said,	“My	 boss	was	completely	silent.	He	looked	at	my	list	 of	key	tasks,
looked	back	up	at	me,	and	looked	at	the	list	again.
    “He	 then	said,	‘You’re	 right.	 These	are	the	three	most	important	things	that
you	do	in	this	company—and	the	three	things	that	you	do	best.	I	will	 help	you
delegate	and	outsource	all	these	other	minor	tasks	to	free	you	up	to	work	full-
time	on	these	three	key	tasks.	And	if	you	double	your	contribution,	 I	will	  pay
you	twice	as	much.’”


Transform	     Your	  Life

Cynthia	concluded	her	story	by	saying,	“He	 did;	then	I	did;	 then	he	did.	He
helped	me	delegate	and	assign	my	minor	tasks	so	I	could	concentrate	on	my	top
three	jobs.	As	a	result,	I	doubled	my	output	over	the	next	thirty	 days,	and	he
doubled	my	income.
    “I	 had	been	working	very	 hard	for	more	than	eight	years,	and	I	doubled	my
income	in	just	one	month	by	focusing	 all	my	time	and	energy	on	my	three	key
tasks.	Not	only	that,	but	instead	of	working	 ten-and	twelve-hour	days,	I	work
from	eight	o’clock	 to	five	 o’clock	 and	spend	time	in	the	evenings	and	on	the

51
weekends	with	my	husband	and	my	children.	Focusing	on	my	key	tasks	has
transformed	my	life.”
    Perhaps	the	most	important	word	in	 the	world	of	work	 is	contribution.	 Your
rewards,	both	financial	and	emotional,	will	 always	be	in	 direct	proportion	to
your	results,	to	the	value	of	your	contribution.	 If	 you	want	to	increase	your
rewards,	you	must	focus	on	increasing	the	value	of	what	you	do.	You	must
dedicate	yourself	to	contributing	 more	results	to	your	company.	And	three	key
tasks	always	contribute	the	most.


The	 Quick	   List	  Method

Here	is	an	exercise	that	we	use	with	our	coaching	clients	very	early	in	the
process.	We	give	them	a	sheet	of	paper	and	then	tell	them,	“In	thirty	seconds,
write	down	your	 three	most	important	goals	in	life	 right	now.”
    We	have	found	that	when	people	have	only	thirty	 seconds	to	write	their	three
most	important	goals,	their	answers	are	as	accurate	as	if	they	had	thirty	minutes
or	three	hours.	Their	subconscious	minds	seem	to	go	into	hyperdrive,	and	their
three	most	important	goals	pop	out	of	their	heads	and	onto	the	paper,	often	to	the
surprise	of	the	people	doing	the	exercise.
    In	 80	percent	or	more	of	cases,	people	have	three	goals	in	common:	first,	a
financial	and	career	goal;	second,	a	family	or	personal	relationship	goal;	and
third,	a	health	or	fitness	goal.	And	this	 is	as	it	should	be.	These	are	the	three
most	important	areas	of	life.	If	 you	give	yourself	 a	grade	on	a	scale	of	one	to	ten
in	each	of	these	three	areas,	you	can	immediately	identify	where	you	are	doing
well	in	life	 and	where	you	need	some	improvement.	Try	it	 yourself	and	see.	Give
this	exercise	to	your	spouse	or	your	children.	The	answers	can	be	quite
revealing.
    Later	 in	our	coaching	program,	we	expand	this	exercise	by	asking	the
following	 questions:


1.		What	are	your	three	most	important	business	or	career	goals	right	now?
2.		What	are	your	three	most	important	family	or	 relationship	 goals	right	now?
3.		What	are	your	three	most	important	financial	 goals	right	now?
4.		What	are	your	three	most	important	health	goals	right	now?
5.		What	are	your	three	most	important	personal	and	professional	development
     goals	right	now?
6.		What	are	your	three	most	important	social	and	community	goals	right	 now?

52
7.		What	are	your	three	biggest	problems	or	concerns	in	life	right	 now?


    When	you	 force	yourself	to	ask	and	answer	each	of	these	questions	in	thirty
seconds	or	less,	you	will	be	amazed	at	the	answers.	Whatever	your	answers,	they
will	 usually	be	an	accurate	snapshot	of	your	true	situation	in	life	at	the	moment.
These	answers	will	tell	you	what	is	 really	important	to	 you.
    While	 you	are	setting	goals	and	priorities,	getting	organized,	concentrating
single-mindedly	on	one	task	at	a	time,	and	disciplining	 yourself	to	complete	your
most	important	tasks,	you	must	never	forget	that	your	ultimate	 goal	is	to	live	a
long,	happy,	and	healthy	life.


Time	  Management	     Is	 a	Means	  to	 an	 End

The	main	reason	to	develop	time	management	skills	is	so	that	you	can	complete
everything	that	is	really	important	 in	your	 work	and	free	up	more	and	more	time
to	do	the	things	in	your	personal	life	 that	give	you	the	greatest	happiness	and
satisfaction.
    Fully	 85	percent	of	your	happiness	in	life	 will	 come	from	happy	relationships
with	other	people,	especially	those	closest	to	you,	as	well	as	the	members	of
your	family.	 The	critical	 determinant	of	the	quality	 of	your	relationships	is	the
amount	of	time	that	you	spend	face-to-face	with	the	people	you	love	 and	who
love	you	in	return.
    The	purpose	of	time	 management—of	eating	that	frog—and	getting	more
done	in	less	time	is	to	enable	you	to	spend	more	“face	time”	with	 the	people	you
care	about,	doing	the	things	that	give	you	the	greatest	amount	of	joy	in	life.


    Rule:	It	 is	the	quality	of	 time	at	work	that	counts	and	the	quantity	of	 time	at
                                                  home	that	matters.


Work	   All	  the	 Time	  You	  Work

To	keep	your	life	in	 balance,	you	should	resolve	to	work	all	the	time	you	work.
When	you	go	to	work,	put	 your	head	down	and	work	the	whole	time.	Start	a
little	earlier,	 stay	a	little	later,	and	work	a	little	 harder.	Don’t	 waste	time.	Every
minute	that	you	spend	in	idle	chitchat	with	 coworkers	is	time	taken	away	from
the	work	that	you	must	accomplish	if	 you	want	to	do	well	 at	your	job.
    Even	worse,	time	that	you	 waste	at	work	often	has	to	be	taken	away	from
your	family.	 You	have	to	either	stay	late	or	take	work	home	and	work	 in	the
evenings.	By	not	working	 effectively	 and	efficiently	 during	your	 workday,	you

53
evenings.	By	not	working	 effectively	 and	efficiently	 during	your	 workday,	you
create	unnecessary	stress	and	deprive	the	members	of	your	family	of	the	very
best	person	you	can	possibly	be.


Balance	  Is	 Not	  Optional

One	of	the	most	famous	sayings	of	the	ancient	Greeks	is	“Moderation	in	all
things.”	You	 need	balance	between	your	work	and	your	personal	life.	You	need
to	set	priorities	at	work	and	concentrate	on	your	most	valuable	tasks.	At	the
same	time,	you	must	never	lose	sight	of	the	fact	that	the	reason	for	working
efficiently	 is	so	that	you	can	enjoy	a	higher	quality	of	 life	at	home	with	 your
family.
    Sometimes	people	come	up	to	me	and	ask,	“How	do	I	achieve	balance
between	my	work	and	my	home	life?”
    I	 ask	them	in	return,	“How	 often	does	a	tightrope	walker	balance	when	on	the
high	wire?”	 After	a	few	 seconds	of	thinking,	they	almost	always	say,	“All	 the
time.”	I	 say,	“That	is	the	same	situation	with	balance	between	work	and	home
life.	You	 have	to	do	it	all	the	time.	You	 never	reach	a	point	where	you	have
attained	it	perfectly.	You	 have	to	work	at	it.”
    Your	 goal	should	be	to	perform	at	your	very	 best	at	work—to	get	the	very
most	done	and	enjoy	the	very	highest	level	of	rewards	possible	for	you	in	your
career.	Simultaneously,	you	must	always	remember	to	“smell	the	flowers	 along
the	way.”	Never	lose	sight	of	 the	real	reasons	why	you	work	as	hard	as	you	do
and	why	you	are	so	determined	to	accomplish	the	very	most	with	the	time	that
you	invest.	The	more	time	you	spend	face-to-face	with	the	people	you	love,	 the
happier	you	will	 be.












                                        EAT	     THAT	       FROG!

54
1.	Determine	the	three	most	important	tasks	that	you	do	in	your	work.	 Ask
yourself,	“If	 I	could	 do	only	one	thing	all	 day	long,	which	one	task	would
contribute	the	greatest	value	to	my	career?”	Do	this	exercise	two	more
times.	Once	you	have	identified	your	“big	 three,”	 concentrate	on	them
single-mindedly	all	 day	long.

2.	Identify	 your	three	most	important	goals	in	each	area	of	your	life.
Organize	them	by	priority.	 Make	plans	for	their	 accomplishment,	and	work
on	your	plans	every	single	day.	You	will	 be	amazed	at	what	you	achieve	in
the	months	and	years	ahead.

55
9	 Prepare	          Thoroughly	               Before	        You	      Begin


    No	matter	what	the	level	 of	your	ability,	 you	have	more	potential
    than	you	can	ever	develop	in	a	lifetime.

   JAMES	T.	MCCAY


One	of	the	best	ways	for	you	to	overcome	procrastination	and	get	more	things
done	faster	is	to	have	everything	you	need	at	hand	before	you	begin.	When	you
are	fully	prepared,	you	are	like	a	cocked	gun	or	an	archer	with	an	arrow	pulled
back	taut	in	the	bow.	You	will	be	amazed	at	what	you	achieve	in	the	months	and
years	ahead.	You	just	need	one	small	mental	push	to	get	started	on	your	highest-
value	tasks.
    This	is	like	getting	everything	ready	to	prepare	a	complete	meal.	You	set	all
the	ingredients	out	on	the	counter	in	front	of	you	and	then	begin	putting	the	meal
together,	one	step	at	a	time.
    Begin	by	clearing	off	your	desk	or	workspace	so	that	you	have	only	one	task
in	front	of	you.	If	necessary,	put	everything	else	on	the	floor	or	on	a	table	behind
you.
    Gather	all	the	information,	reports,	details,	papers,	and	work	materials	that
you	will	require	to	complete	the	job.	Have	them	at	hand	so	you	can	reach	them
without	getting	up	or	moving	around.	Be	sure	that	you	have	all	the	writing
materials,	log-in	information,	access	codes,	e-mail	addresses,	and	everything
else	you	need	to	start	working	and	continue	working	until	the	job	is	done.
    Set	up	your	work	area	so	that	it	is	comfortable,	attractive,	and	conducive	to
working	for	long	periods.	Especially,	make	sure	that	you	have	a	comfortable
chair	that	supports	your	back	and	allows	your	feet	to	rest	flat	on	the	floor.

Create	a	Comfortable	  Workspace

The	most	productive	people	take	the	time	to	create	a	work	area	where	they	enjoy
spending	time.	The	cleaner	and	neater	you	organize	your	work	area	before	you

56
spending	time.	The	cleaner	and	neater	you	organize	your	work	area	before	you
begin,	the	easier	it	will	be	for	 you	to	get	started	and	keep	going.
    When	everything	 is	laid	out	neatly	 and	in	sequence,	you	will	feel	much	more
like	getting	on	with	 the	job.
    It	 is	amazing	how	many	books	never	get	written,	how	 many	degrees	never	get
completed,	how	many	life-changing	 tasks	never	get	started	because	people	fail	to
take	the	first	step	of	preparing	everything	in	 advance.


Launch	   toward	   Your	   Dreams

Once	you	have	completed	your	preparations,	it	is	essential	that	you	launch
immediately	toward	your	 goals.	Get	started.	Do	the	first	thing,	whatever	it	 is.
    My	 personal	rule	is	“Get	 it	80	percent	right	and	then	correct	it	later.”	 Run	it
up	the	flagpole	and	see	if	anyone	salutes.	Don’t	expect	perfection	the	first	time
or	even	the	first	few	times.	Be	prepared	to	fail	 over	and	over	before	you	get	it
right.
    Wayne	Gretzky,	 the	great	hockey	player,	once	said,	“You	miss	100	percent	of
the	shots	you	don’t	take.”	Once	you	have	completed	your	preparations,	have	the
courage	to	take	the	first	action,	and	everything	else	will	 follow	 from	that.	The
way	you	develop	the	courage	you	need	is	to	act	as	if	you	already	had	the	courage
and	behave	accordingly.


Take	  the	 First	  Step

When	you	sit	down	with	 everything	in	 front	of	you,	 ready	to	go,	assume	the
body	language	of	high	performance.	Sit	up	straight;	sit	forward	 and	away	from
the	back	of	the	chair.	Carry	yourself	as	though	you	were	an	efficient,	 effective,
high-performing	 personality.	Then,	pick	up	the	first	 item	and	say	to	yourself,
“Let’s	 get	to	work!”	 and	plunge	in.	And	 once	you’ve	started,	keep	going	until
the	job	is	finished.

57
                               EAT	   THAT	     FROG!


1.	Take	a	good	look	at	your	desk	or	office,	both	at	home	and	at	work.	Ask
yourself,	“What	kind	of	a	person	works	in	an	environment	like	this?”	The
cleaner	and	neater	your	work	environment,	the	more	positive,	productive,
and	confident	you	will	feel.

2.	Resolve	today	to	clean	up	your	desk	and	office	completely	so	that	you
feel	effective,	efficient,	and	ready	to	get	going	each	time	you	sit	down	to
work.

58
10	  Take	     It	   One	     Oil	    Barrel	       at	   a	 Time


    Persons	with	comparatively	moderate	powers	will	accomplish
    much,	if	they	apply	themselves	wholly	and	indefatigably	to	one
    thing	at	a	time.

   SAMUEL	SMILES


There	is	an	old	saying	that	“by	the	yard	it’s	hard;	but	inch	by	inch,	anything’s	a
cinch!”
   One	of	the	best	ways	to	overcome	procrastination	is	for	you	to	get	your	mind
off	the	huge	task	in	front	of	you	and	focus	on	a	single	action	that	you	can	take.
One	of	the	best	ways	to	eat	a	large	frog	is	for	you	to	take	it	one	bite	at	a	time.
   Lao-tzu	wrote,	“A	journey	of	a	thousand	leagues	begins	with	a	single	step.”
This	is	a	great	strategy	for	overcoming	procrastination	and	getting	more	things
done	faster.

Crossing	a	Great	Desert

Many	years	ago,	driving	an	old	Land	Rover,	I	crossed	the	heart	of	the	Sahara
Desert,	the	Tanezrouft,	deep	in	modern-day	Algeria.	By	that	time,	the	desert	had
been	abandoned	by	the	French	for	years,	and	the	original	refueling	stations	were
empty	and	shuttered.
   The	desert	was	500	miles	across	in	a	single	stretch,	without	water,	food,	a
blade	of	grass,	or	even	a	fly.	It	was	totally	flat,	like	a	broad,	yellow	sand	parking
lot	that	stretched	to	the	horizon	in	all	directions.
   More	than	1,300	people	had	perished	in	the	crossing	of	that	stretch	of	the
Sahara	in	previous	years.	Often,	drifting	sands	had	obliterated	the	track	across
the	desert,	and	the	travelers	had	gotten	lost	in	the	night,	never	to	be	found	again
alive.
   To	counter	the	lack	of	features	in	the	terrain,	the	French	had	marked	the	track
with	black,	fifty-five-gallon	oil	drums	every	five	kilometers,	which	was	exactly

59
with	black,	fifty-five-gallon	   oil	 drums	every	five	kilometers,	 which	was	exactly
the	distance	to	the	horizon,	formed	by	the	curvature	of	the	earth.
    Because	of	this,	in	the	daytime,	we	could	 always	see	two	oil	barrels—the	one
we	had	just	passed	and	the	one	five	kilometers	ahead	of	it.	And	that	was	exactly
what	we	needed	to	stay	on	course.
    All	 we	had	to	do	was	to	steer	for	the	next	oil	 barrel.	As	a	result,	we	were	able
to	cross	the	biggest	desert	in	the	world	by	simply	taking	 it	“one	oil	 barrel	at	a
time.”


Take	  It	 One	  Step	 at	 a	Time

In	the	same	way,	you	can	accomplish	the	biggest	task	in	your	life	by	disciplining
yourself	to	take	it	just	one	step	at	a	time.	Your	job	 is	to	go	as	far	as	you	can	see.
You	will	 then	be	able	to	see	far	enough	to	go	further.
    To	 accomplish	a	great	task,	you	must	step	out	in	faith	and	have	complete
confidence	that	your	next	step	will	 soon	become	clear	to	you.	Remember	this
wonderful	advice:	“Leap—and	 the	net	will	 appear!”
    A	 great	life	or	a	great	career	is	built	by	performing	 one	task	at	a	time,	quickly
and	well,	and	then	going	on	to	the	next	task.	Financial	independence	is	achieved
by	saving	a	little	money	every	single	 month,	year	after	year.	Health	and	fitness
are	accomplished	by	just	eating	a	little	less	and	exercising	a	little	more,	day	after
day	and	month	after	month.
    You	 can	overcome	procrastination	and	accomplish	extraordinary	things	by
taking	just	the	first	 step,	getting	started	toward	your	goal,	and	then	taking	it	one
step,	one	oil	barrel,	at	a	time.












                                        EAT	     THAT	       FROG!


    1.	Select	any	goal,	task,	or	project	in	your	life	 on	which	you	 have	been

60
procrastinating	and	make	a	list	of	all	the	steps	you	will	 need	to	take	to
eventually	complete	the	task.

2.	Then	take	just	one	step	immediately.	Sometimes	all	you	need	to	do	to	get
started	is	to	sit	down	and	complete	one	item	on	the	list.	And	then	do	one
more,	and	so	on.	You	will	 be	amazed	at	what	you	eventually	accomplish.

61
11	  Upgrade	           Your	       Key	      Skills


        The	only	certain	means	of	success	is	to	render	more	and	better
        service	than	is	expected	of	you,	no	matter	what	your	task	may	be.

      OG	MANDINO


Upgrading	your	skills	is	one	of	the	most	important	personal	productivity
principles	of	all.	Learn	what	you	need	to	learn	so	that	you	can	do	your	work	in
an	excellent	fashion.	The	better	you	become	at	eating	a	particular	type	of	frog,
the	more	likely	you	are	to	just	plunge	in	and	get	it	done.
    A	major	reason	for	procrastination	is	a	feeling	of	inadequacy,	a	lack	of
confidence,	or	an	inability	in	a	key	area	of	a	task.	Feeling	weak	or	deficient	in	a
single	area	is	enough	to	discourage	you	from	starting	the	job	at	all.
    Continually	upgrade	your	skills	in	your	key	result	areas.	Remember,	however
good	you	are	today,	your	knowledge	and	skills	are	becoming	obsolete	at	a	rapid
rate.	As	Pat	Riley,	the	basketball	coach,	said,	“Anytime	you	stop	striving	to	get
better,	you’re	bound	to	get	worse.”

Never	Stop	Learning

One	of	the	most	helpful	of	all	time	management	techniques	is	for	you	to	get
better	at	your	key	tasks.	Personal	and	professional	improvement	is	one	of	the
best	time	savers	there	is.	The	better	you	are	at	a	key	task,	the	more	motivated
you	are	to	launch	into	it.	The	better	you	are,	the	more	energy	and	enthusiasm
you	have.	When	you	know	that	you	can	do	a	job	well,	you	find	it	easier	to
overcome	procrastination	and	get	the	job	done	faster	and	better	than	under	any
other	circumstances.

    One	piece	of	information	or	one	additional	skill	can	make	an	enormous
difference	in	your	ability	to	do	the	job	well.	Identify	the	most	important	things
you	do,	and	then	make	a	plan	to	continually	upgrade	your	skills	in	those	areas.

62
 Rule:	Continuous	learning	is	the	minimum	 requirement	for	 success	in	any	field.


    Refuse	to	allow	 a	weakness	or	a	lack	of	ability	in	any	area	to	hold	you	back.
Everything	is	learnable.	And	 what	others	have	learned,	you	can	learn	as	well.
    When	I	 began	to	write	my	first	 book,	I	was	discouraged	because	I	could	use
only	the	hunt-and-peck	method	of	typing.	 I	soon	realized	that	I	had	to	learn	to
touch-type	if	I	 was	ever	going	to	write	and	rewrite	 a	300-page	book.	So	I	bought
a	touch-typing	program	for	 my	computer	and	practiced	for	twenty	 to	thirty
minutes	every	day	for	three	months.	By	the	end	of	that	time,	I	 was	typing	forty
to	fifty	 words	per	minute.	With	 this	additional	 skill,	I	 have	been	able	to	write
more	than	seventy-five	books	that	have	now	been	published	all	over	the	world.
    The	best	news	is	that	you	can	learn	whatever	skills	you	need	to	be	more
productive	and	more	effective.	You	 can	become	a	touch	typist	if	necessary.	You
can	become	proficient	with	a	computer.	You	 can	become	a	terrific	negotiator	or
a	super	salesperson.	You	can	learn	to	speak	in	public.	You	can	learn	to	write
effectively	 and	well.	These	are	all	skills	you	can	acquire	as	soon	as	you	decide	to
and	make	them	a	priority.


Three	  Steps	 to	 Mastery

First,	read	in	your	field	 for	at	least	one	hour	every	day.	Get	up	a	little	earlier	in
the	morning	and	read	for	thirty	 to	sixty	minutes	in	a	book	or	 magazine	that
contains	information	that	can	help	you	be	more	effective	 and	productive	at	what
you	do.
    Second,	take	every	course	and	seminar	available	on	the	key	skills	that	can
help	you.	Attend	the	conventions	and	business	meetings	of	your	profession	or
occupation.	Go	to	the	sessions	and	workshops.	Sit	up	front	and	take	notes.
Purchase	the	audio	recordings	of	the	programs.	Dedicate	yourself	to	becoming
one	of	the	most	knowledgeable	and	competent	people	in	your	field.
    Third,	 listen	to	audio	programs	in	your	 car.	The	average	car	owner	sits	behind
the	wheel	500	to	1,000	hours	each	year	while	driving	from	 place	to	place.	Turn
driving	time	 into	learning	time.	 You	can	become	one	of	the	smartest,	most
capable,	and	highest	paid	people	in	your	field	simply	 by	listening	to	educational
audio	programs	as	you	drive	from	place	to	place.
    The	more	you	learn	and	know,	 the	more	confident	and	motivated	you	feel.
The	better	you	become,	the	more	capable	you	will	be	of	doing	even	more	in	your
field.
    The	more	you	learn,	the	more	you	can	learn.	Just	as	you	can	build	your
physical	muscles	through	physical	exercise,	you	can	build	your	mental	muscles

63
physical	muscles	through	physical	exercise,	you	can	build	your	mental	muscles
with	mental	exercises.	And	there	is	no	limit	 to	how	far	 or	how	fast	you	can
advance	except	for	the	limits	you	place	on	your	own	imagination.












                                        EAT	     THAT	       FROG!


    1.	Identify	 the	key	skills	that	can	help	you	the	most	to	achieve	better	and
    faster	results.	Determine	the	core	competencies	that	you	will	need	to	have
    in	the	future	to	lead	your	field.	 Whatever	they	are,	set	a	goal,	make	a	plan,
    and	begin	developing	and	increasing	your	ability	 in	those	areas.	Decide	to
    be	the	very	best	at	what	you	do!
    2.	Develop	a	personal	plan	to	prepare	yourself	to	do	your	most	important
    tasks	in	an	excellent	fashion.	Focus	on	those	areas	where	you	have	special
    talents	and	that	you	most	enjoy.	This	is	the	key	to	unlocking	 your	personal
    potential.

64
12	  Identify	           Your	       Key	      Constraints


        Concentrate	all	your	thoughts	on	the	task	at	hand.	The	sun’s	rays
        do	not	burn	until	brought	 to	a	focus.

      ALEXANDER	GRAHAM	BELL


Between	where	you	are	today	and	any	goal	or	objective	that	you	want	to
accomplish,	there	is	one	major	constraint	that	must	be	overcome	before	you	can
achieve	that	major	goal.	Your	job	is	to	identify	it	clearly.
    What	is	holding	you	back?	What	sets	the	speed	at	which	you	achieve	your
goals?	What	determines	how	fast	you	move	from	where	you	are	to	where	you
want	to	go?	What	stops	you	or	holds	you	back	from	eating	the	frogs	that	can
really	make	a	difference?	Why	aren’t	you	at	your	goal	already?
    These	are	some	of	the	most	important	questions	you	will	ever	ask	and	answer
on	your	way	to	achieving	high	levels	of	personal	productivity	and	effectiveness.
Whatever	you	have	to	do,	there	is	always	a	limiting	factor	that	determines	how
quickly	and	well	you	get	it	done.	Your	job	is	to	study	the	task	and	identify	the
limiting	factor	or	constraint	within	it.	You	must	then	focus	all	of	your	energies
on	alleviating	that	single	choke	point.

Identify	 the	 Limiting	  Factor

In	virtually	every	task,	large	or	small,	a	single	factor	sets	the	speed	at	which	you
achieve	the	goal	or	complete	the	job.	What	is	it?	Concentrate	your	mental
energies	on	that	one	key	area.	This	can	be	the	most	productive	use	of	your	time
and	talents.
    This	constraint	may	be	a	person	whose	help	or	decision	you	need,	a	resource
that	you	require,	a	weakness	in	some	part	of	the	organization,	or	something	else.
But	the	limiting	factor	is	always	there,	and	it	is	always	your	job	to	find	it.
    For	example,	the	purpose	of	a	business	is	to	create	and	keep	customers.	By
doing	this	in	sufficient	quantities,	the	company	makes	a	profit	and	continues	to

65
doing	this	in	sufficient	 quantities,	the	company	makes	a	profit	and	continues	to
grow	and	flourish.
    Every	 business	has	a	limiting	factor	or	choke	point	that	determines	how
quickly	and	well	 the	company	achieves	this	purpose.	It	may	be	the	marketing,
the	level	of	sales,	or	the	sales	force	itself.	It	may	be	the	costs	of	operation	or	the
methods	of	production.	It	may	be	the	level	of	 cash	flow	or	costs.	The	success	of
the	company	may	be	determined	by	the	competition,	the	customers,	or	the
current	marketplace.	One	of	these	factors,	more	than	anything	else,	determines
how	quickly	 the	company	achieves	its	goals	of	growth	and	profitability.	 What	 is
it?
    The	accurate	identification	 of	the	limiting	  factor	in	any	process	and	the	focus
on	that	factor	can	usually	bring	about	more	progress	in	a	shorter	period	than	any
other	single	activity.


The	 80/20	  Rule	  Applied	   to	 Constraints

The	80/20	Rule	also	applies	to	the	constraints	in	your	life	 and	in	your	work.	This
means	that	80	percent	of	the	constraints,	the	factors	that	are	holding	you	back
from	achieving	your	 goals,	are	internal.	They	are	within	 yourself—within	  your
own	personal	qualities,	abilities,	habits,	disciplines,	 or	competencies.	Or	they	are
contained	within	your	 own	company	or	organization.
    Only	 20	percent	of	the	limiting	 factors	are	external	to	you	or	 to	your
organization.	Only	20	percent	are	on	the	outside	in	the	form	of	 competition,
markets,	governments,	or	other	organizations.
    Your	 key	constraint	can	be	something	small	and	not	particularly	 obvious.
Sometimes	you	have	to	make	a	list	of	every	step	in	a	process	and	examine	every
activity	to	 determine	exactly	what	is	holding	 you	back.	Sometimes	a	single
negative	perception	or	objection	on	the	part	of	customers	can	be	slowing	down
the	entire	sales	process.	Sometimes	the	absence	of	a	single	feature	can	be
holding	back	the	growth	of	 sales	of	a	product	or	service	line.
    Look	 into	your	 company	honestly.	Look	within	 your	 boss,	your	coworkers,
and	members	of	your	staff	to	see	if	there	is	a	key	weakness	that	is	holding	you	or
the	company	back,	acting	as	a	brake	on	the	achievement	of	your	key	goals.


Look	  into	  Yourself

Successful	people	always	begin	the	analysis	of	constraints	by	asking	the
question,	“What	is	it	 in	me	that	is	holding	me	back?”	They	accept	complete
responsibility	for	 their	lives	and	look	 to	themselves	for	both	the	cause	and	cure

66
of	their	problems.
    In	 your	own	life,	 you	must	have	the	honesty	to	look	deeply	into	yourself	 for
the	limiting	 factor	or	limiting	  skill	that	sets	the	speed	at	which	you	achieve	your
personal	goals.	Keep	asking,	“What	sets	the	speed	at	which	I	get	the	results	I
want?”


Strive	  for	  Accuracy

The	definition	 of	the	constraint	determines	the	strategy	that	you	use	to	alleviate
it.	The	failure	to	 identify	 the	correct	constraint,	or	the	identification	 of	the	wrong
constraint,	can	lead	you	off	in	the	wrong	 direction.	You	 can	end	up	solving	the
wrong	problem.
    A	 major	corporation,	a	client	 of	mine,	was	experiencing	declining	 sales.	The
corporation’s	leaders	concluded	that	the	major	constraint	was	the	quality	of	the
sales	force	and	the	sales	management.	They	therefore	spent	an	enormous	amount
of	money	reorganizing	the	management	and	retraining	the	salespeople.
    They	 later	found	that	the	primary	reason	that	sales	were	down	was	a	mistake
made	by	an	accountant	who	had	accidentally	priced	their	products	too	high
relative	to	their	competition	 in	the	marketplace.	Once	the	corporation	revamped
its	pricing,	its	 sales	went	back	up	and	it	returned	to	profitability.
    Behind	 every	constraint	or	choke	point,	once	it	is	located	and	alleviated
successfully,	you	will	 find	 another	constraint	or	limiting	 factor.	Whether	you’re
trying	to	get	to	work	 on	time	in	the	morning	 or	build	 a	successful	career,	there
are	always	limiting	 factors	and	bottlenecks	that	set	the	speed	of	your	progress.
Your	job	is	to	 find	them	and	to	focus	your	energies	on	alleviating	 them	as
quickly	as	possible.
    Starting	 off	your	day	with	 the	removal	of	 a	key	bottleneck	or	constraint	fills
you	with	energy	and	personal	power.	It	propels	you	into	 following	 through	and
completing	the	job.	Often,	alleviating	 a	key	constraint	or	limiting	  factor	is	the
most	important	frog	you	 could	eat	at	that	moment.

67
                               EAT	   THAT	     FROG!


1.	Identify	your	most	important	goal	in	life	today.	What	is	it?	What	one
goal,	if	you	achieved	it,	would	have	the	greatest	positive	effect	on	your
life?	What	one	career	accomplishment	would	have	the	greatest	positive
impact	on	your	work	life?

2.	Determine	the	one	constraint,	internal	or	external,	that	sets	the	speed	at
which	you	accomplish	this	goal.	Ask,	“Why	haven’t	I	reached	it	already?
What	is	it	in	me	that	is	holding	me	back?”	Whatever	your	answers,	take
action	immediately.	Do	something.	Do	anything,	but	get	started.

68
13	  Put	     the	    Pressure	          on	    Yourself


        The	first	requisite	for	 success	is	the	ability	to	apply	your	physical
        and	mental	energies	to	one	problem	incessantly	without	growing
        weary.

      THOMAS	EDISON


The	world	is	full	of	people	who	are	waiting	for	someone	to	come	along	and
motivate	them	to	be	the	kind	of	people	they	wish	they	could	be.	The	problem	is
that	no	one	is	coming	to	the	rescue.
    These	people	are	waiting	for	a	bus	on	a	street	where	no	buses	pass.	If	they
don’t	take	charge	of	their	lives	and	put	the	pressure	on	themselves,	they	can	end
up	waiting	forever.	And	that	is	what	most	people	do.
    Only	about	2	percent	of	people	can	work	entirely	without	supervision.	We
call	these	people	“leaders.”	This	is	the	kind	of	person	you	are	meant	to	be	and
that	you	can	be,	if	you	decide	to	be.
    To	reach	your	full	potential,	you	must	form	the	habit	of	putting	the	pressure
on	yourself	and	not	waiting	for	someone	else	to	come	along	and	do	it	for	you.
You	must	choose	your	own	frogs	and	then	make	yourself	eat	them	in	their	order
of	importance.

Lead	the	Field

See	yourself	as	a	role	model.	Raise	the	bar	on	yourself.	The	standards	you	set	for
your	own	work	and	behavior	should	be	higher	than	anyone	else	could	set	for
you.
    Make	a	game	of	starting	a	little	earlier,	working	a	little	harder,	and	staying	a
little	later.	Always	look	for	ways	to	go	the	extra	mile,	to	do	more	than	you	are
paid	for.
    Your	self-esteem	has	been	defined	by	psychologist	Nathaniel	Branden	as	“the
reputation	you	have	with	yourself.”	You	build	up	or	pull	down	your	reputation

69
reputation	you	have	with	yourself.”	 You	 build	up	or	pull	 down	your	 reputation
with	yourself	 with	everything	 you	do	or	fail	 to	do.	The	good	news	is	that	you
feel	better	about	yourself	whenever	you	push	yourself	to	do	your	best.	You
increase	your	self-esteem	whenever	you	go	beyond	the	point	where	the	average
person	would	normally	quit.


Create	  Imaginary	     Deadlines

One	of	the	best	ways	for	you	to	overcome	procrastination	and	get	more	things
done	faster	is	by	working	as	though	you	had	only	one	day	to	get	your	most
important	jobs	done.
    Imagine	 each	day	that	you	have	just	received	an	emergency	message	and	that
you	will	 have	to	leave	town	tomorrow	 for	a	month.	If	 you	had	to	leave	town	for
a	month,	what	would	you	make	absolutely	sure	that	you	got	done	before	you
left?	Whatever	your	answer,	go	to	work	 on	that	task	right	now.
    Another	 way	to	put	pressure	on	yourself	is	to	imagine	that	you	just	 received
an	all-expenses-paid	vacation	at	a	beautiful	resort	as	a	prize,	but	you	will	have	to
leave	tomorrow	morning	 on	the	vacation	or	it	will	 be	given	to	someone	else.
What	would	you	be	determined	to	finish	 before	you	left	 so	that	you	could	take
that	vacation?	Whatever	it	is,	start	on	that	one	job	immediately.
    Successful	people	continually	 put	the	pressure	on	themselves	to	perform	at
high	levels.	Unsuccessful	people	have	to	be	instructed	and	pressured	by	others.
    By	 putting	the	pressure	on	yourself,	you	will	 accomplish	more	tasks	better
and	faster	than	ever.	You	will	become	a	high-performance,	high-achieving
personality.	You	will	 feel	 terrific	 about	yourself,	and	bit	by	bit	 you	will	 build	 the
habit	of	rapid	task	completion	 that	will	 then	go	on	to	serve	you	all	the	days	of
your	life.












                                        EAT	     THAT	       FROG!

70
1.	Set	deadlines	and	subdeadlines	on	every	task	and	activity.	Create	your
own	“forcing	 system.”	Raise	the	bar	on	yourself	and	don’t	let	 yourself	off
the	hook.	Once	you’ve	set	yourself	a	deadline,	stick	to	it	 and	even	try	to
beat	it.

2.	Write	out	every	step	of	a	major	job	 or	project	before	you	begin.
Determine	how	many	minutes	and	hours	you	will	 require	to	complete	each
phase.	Then	race	against	your	own	clock.	Beat	your	own	deadlines.	Make	it
a	game	and	resolve	to	win!

71
14	  Motivate	            Yourself	           into	     Action


        It	is	in	the	compelling	 zest	of	high	adventure	and	of	victory,	 and
        of	creative	action	that	man	finds	his	supreme	joys.

      ANTOINE	DE	SAINT-EXUPÉRY


To	perform	at	your	best,	you	must	become	your	own	personal	cheerleader.	You
must	develop	a	routine	of	coaching	yourself	and	encouraging	yourself	to	play	at
the	top	of	your	game.
    Most	of	your	emotions,	positive	or	negative,	are	determined	by	how	you	talk
to	yourself	on	a	minute-to-minute	basis.	It	is	not	what	happens	to	you	but	the
way	that	you	interpret	the	things	that	are	happening	to	you	that	determines	how
you	feel.	Your	version	of	events	largely	determines	whether	these	events
motivate	or	de-motivate	you,	whether	they	energize	or	de-energize	you.
    To	keep	yourself	motivated,	you	must	resolve	to	become	a	complete	optimist.
You	must	decide	to	respond	positively	to	the	words,	actions,	and	reactions	of	the
people	and	situations	around	you.	You	must	refuse	to	let	the	unavoidable
difficulties	and	setbacks	of	daily	life	affect	your	mood	or	emotions.

Control	 Your	 Inner	  Dialogue

Your	level	of	self-esteem,	how	much	you	like	and	respect	yourself,	is	central	to
your	levels	of	motivation	and	persistence.	You	should	talk	to	yourself	positively
all	the	time	to	boost	your	self-esteem.	Say,	“I	like	myself!	I	like	myself!”	over
and	over	until	you	begin	to	believe	it	and	behave	like	a	person	with	a	high-
performance	personality.
    To	keep	yourself	motivated	and	to	overcome	feelings	of	doubt	or	fear,
continually	tell	yourself,	“I	can	do	it!	I	can	do	it!”	When	people	ask	you	how
you	are,	always	tell	them,	“I	feel	terrific!”
    No	matter	how	you	really	feel	at	the	moment	or	what	is	happening	in	your

72
life,	resolve	to	remain	cheerful	 and	upbeat.	As	Viktor	Frankl	 wrote	in	his
bestselling	book	Man’s	Search	for	Meaning,	 “The	last	of	 the	human	freedoms
[is]	to	choose	one’s	attitude	in	any	given	set	of	circumstances.”
    Refuse	to	complain	about	your	 problems.	Keep	them	to	yourself.	As	speaker-
humorist	Ed	Foreman	says,	“You	should	never	share	your	problems	with	others
because	80	percent	of	people	don’t	care	about	them	anyway,	and	the	other	20
percent	are	kind	of	glad	that	you’ve	got	them	in	 the	first	place.”


Develop	  a	 Positive	  Mental	    Attitude

In	Martin	 Seligman’s	twenty-two-year	 study	at	the	University	 of	Pennsylvania,
summarized	in	his	book	Learned	Optimism,	he	determined	that	optimism	 is	the
most	important	quality	 you	can	develop	for	personal	and	professional	success
and	happiness.	Optimistic	people	seem	to	be	more	effective	in	almost	every	area
of	life.
    It	 turns	out	that	optimists	have	four	special	behaviors,	all	learned	through
practice	and	repetition.	First,	optimists	look	 for	the	good	in	every	situation.	 No
matter	what	goes	wrong,	they	always	look	for	 something	good	or	beneficial.	And
not	surprisingly,	they	 always	seem	to	find	it.
    Second,	optimists	always	seek	the	valuable	lesson	in	every	setback	or
difficulty.	 They	believe	that	“difficulties	  come	not	to	obstruct	but	to	instruct.”
They	believe	that	each	setback	or	obstacle	contains	a	valuable	lesson	they	can
learn	and	grow	from,	and	they	are	determined	to	find	it.
    Third,	 optimists	always	look	 for	the	solution	to	 every	problem.	Instead	of
blaming	or	complaining	 when	things	go	wrong,	they	become	action	oriented.
They	ask	questions	like	“What’s	 the	solution?	What	can	we	do	now?	What’s	the
next	step?”
    Fourth,	 optimists	think	and	talk	 continually	 about	their	goals.	They	think
about	what	they	want	and	how	to	get	it.	They	think	 and	talk	about	the	future	and
where	they	are	going	rather	than	the	past	and	where	they	came	from.	They	are
always	looking	forward	 rather	than	backward.
    When	you	 continually	 visualize	your	goals	and	ideals	and	talk	to	yourself	in	 a
positive	way,	you	feel	 more	focused	and	energized.	You	feel	more	confident	and
creative.	You	experience	a	greater	sense	of	control	and	personal	power.
    And	 the	more	positive	and	motivated	you	feel,	the	more	eager	you	will	 be	to
get	started	and	the	more	determined	you	will	be	to	keep	going.

73
                                 EAT	    THAT	      FROG!


1.	Control	your	thoughts.	Remember,	you	become	what	you	think	about
most	of	the	time.	Be	sure	that	you	are	thinking	and	talking	about	the	things
you	want	rather	than	the	things	you	don’t	want.

2.	Keep	your	mind	positive	by	accepting	complete	responsibility	for
yourself	and	for	everything	that	happens	to	you.	Refuse	to	criticize	others,
complain,	or	blame	others	for	anything.	Resolve	to	make	progress	rather
than	excuses.	Keep	your	thoughts	and	your	energy	focused	forward,	on
what	you	can	do	right	now	to	improve	your	life,	and	let	the	rest	go.

74
15	  Technology	              Is	   a	  Terrible	           Master


        There	is	more	to	life	than	just	increasing	its	speed.

      MOHANDAS	GANDHI


Technology	can	be	your	best	friend	or	your	worst	enemy.	Technology	becomes
the	enemy	when	we	give	in	to	an	obsessive	need	to	communicate	continually.
This	compulsion	to	stay	plugged	in	leaves	us	all	psychologically	breathless.	We
have	no	time	to	stop,	smell	the	roses,	and	collect	our	thoughts.

You	Have	 a	Choice

The	key	is	to	keep	your	relationship	with	technology	under	control.	Bill	Gross,
who	managed	more	than	$600	billion	in	fixed-income	funds	and	bonds	when	he
was	with	PIMCO,	is	famous	for	exercising	regularly	and	meditating	daily	to
keep	centered	while	using	no	technology	at	all.	Despite	turning	off	all	his
devices,	he	never	misses	an	important	message.
    For	you	to	stay	calm,	clearheaded,	and	capable	of	performing	at	your	best,
detach	on	a	regular	basis	from	the	technology	that	overwhelms	you.	A	researcher
who	asked	a	group	of	CEOs	and	entrepreneurs	to	unplug	from	technology	found
they	had	improved	memory,	deeper	relationships,	better	sleep,	and	a	greater
likelihood	of	making	life-transforming	decisions.1
    When	people	are	too	plugged	in,	communications	technology	quickly
becomes	a	destructive	addiction.	People	wake	up	in	the	morning	and	obsessively
check	all	their	phone	notifications	before	leaving	their	beds.	They	then	race	to
their	computers	for	yet	more	typing—before	even	eating	breakfast,	drinking
water,	or	brushing	their	teeth!	People	are	now	checking	their	smartphones	about
forty-six	times	each	day	according	to	one	study2	and	about	eighty-five	times	a
day	according	to	another	study,	which	found	that	“people	were	accessing	their
phones	twice	as	often	as	they	thought.”3

75
Don’t	  Become	   Addicted

In	Washington	not	long	ago,	I	 was	at	a	business	luncheon	with	a	roomful	of
high-level	executives.	Prior	to	 the	beginning	of	the	luncheon,	one	of	the
organizers	stood	up	and	said	a	short	grace.	All	the	executives	bowed	their	heads.
When	the	grace	was	over,	the	luncheon	began.
    However,	 at	my	table,	four	or	five	 out	of	the	eight	people	seemed	to	have
been	greatly	affected	by	the	prayer.	They	kept	their	heads	down	and	their	hands
in	their	laps,	even	when	the	food	was	served.	They	seemed	to	be	lost	in	deep
thought	over	the	profound	questions	of	the	day.
    Then	I	 realized	that	they	were	not	praying	at	all.	They	were	all	 intensely
focused	on	their	smartphones,	sending	and	receiving	e-mails,	typing	like	frantic
teenagers	playing	video	games.	They	were	all	lost	to	the	world	around	them,
drowning	in	 a	deep	sink	full	of	information	 exchange.


Take	  Back	  Your	  Time

One	of	my	clients	found	himself	 bound	and	chained	to	his	computer,	receiving
and	responding	to	e-mails	several	hours	each	day.	The	more	time	he	spent	at	his
computer,	the	fewer	of	his	other	important	tasks	he	was	able	to	get	done.	The
stress	caused	by	these	undone	tasks,	building	up	like	an	avalanche	overhang,
started	to	affect	his	personality,	his	health,	and	his	sleeping	habits.
    We	taught	him	 about	the	80/20	Rule	and	how	it	applied	to	e-mails.	He	deleted
and	unsubscribed	from	the	80	percent	of	his	e-mails	that	had	no	value.	Of	the
remaining	20	percent,	only	4	percent	required	immediate	responses.	The	other
16	percent	could	be	transferred	to	an	action	folder	to	be	worked	on	later.


Refuse	 to	 Be	 a	 Slave

Unchain	yourself	from	 your	computer.	Unsubscribe	from	 all	unwanted
newsletters.	Set	up	an	autoresponder	that	says,	“I	check	my	e-mail	only	twice
per	day.	I	will	 reply	as	soon	as	possible.	If	this	is	an	emergency,	phone	this
number.”
    A	 journalist	for	 Fortune	magazine	once	wrote	that	when	he	arrived	back	at
the	office	after	a	two-week	European	vacation,	he	had	more	than	700	e-mails
waiting	for	 him.	He	realized	that	it	 would	take	him	a	week	to	get	through	them
all	before	starting	on	important	projects.
    For	the	first	 time	in	 his	career,	he	took	a	deep	breath	and	punched	the	Delete

76
All	button,	erasing	those	700	e-mails	forever.	He	then	got	busy	with	the	projects
that	were	really	important	to	him	and	his	company.
    His	explanation	was	simple:	“I	realized	that,	just	because	somebody	sends	me
an	e-mail,	it	does	not	mean	that	they	own	a	piece	of	my	life.”	Although	not	many
people	would	delete	their	entire	in-box,	you	can	definitely	delete	and	ignore
more	e-mails	than	you	do	right	now.	Empower	yourself	to	remove	all	e-mails
that	don’t	relate	to	important	goals	and	relationships.


Someone	Will	   Tell	 You

People	often	ask	me	at	my	seminars,	“But	don’t	you	have	to	stay	plugged	into
technology	to	keep	current	with	the	news?”	I	tell	them,	“If	it	is	really	important,
someone	will	tell	you.”	Many	people	unplug	from	the	news,	and	surprisingly
enough,	they	remain	well	informed	on	most	important	subjects.	You	should	do
the	same.











                                     EAT	    THAT	      FROG!


   1.	Resolve	today	to	create	zones	of	silence	during	your	day-to-day
   activities.	Turn	off	your	computer	and	your	smartphone	for	one	hour	in	the
   morning	and	one	hour	in	the	afternoon.	You	will	be	amazed	at	what
   happens:	nothing.

   2.	Resolve	to	unplug	from	technology	for	one	full	day	each	week.	By	the
   end	of	your	digital	detox,	your	mind	will	be	calm	and	clear.	When	your
   mental	batteries	have	time	to	recharge,	you	will	be	much	more	effective	at
   eating	frogs.

77
16	  Technology	              Is	   a	  Wonderful	              Servant


        Technology	is	just	a	tool.

      MELINDA	GATES


You	must	discipline	yourself	to	treat	technology	as	a	servant,	not	as	a	master.
The	purpose	of	technology	is	to	make	your	life	smoother	and	easier,	not	to	create
complexity,	confusion,	and	stress.
    Usually,	to	get	more	done	of	higher	value,	you	have	to	stop	doing	things	of
lower	value.	Keep	asking	yourself,	“What’s	important	here?”	What	is	most
important	for	you	to	accomplish	at	work?	What	is	important	in	your	personal
life?	If	you	could	do	only	one	or	two	of	the	activities	available	to	you,	which
ones	would	they	be?
    Use	your	technological	tools	to	regularly	remind	yourself	of	what	is	most
important	and	protect	yourself	from	what	is	least	important.	Technology	can	be	a
simple	way	to	get	control	of	your	communications,	your	time,	and	even	your
emotions.

Take	Control	  of	Your	 Communication

Clear	your	digital	workspace	as	you	would	your	physical	desk;	close	every
program	not	needed	for	the	task	at	hand.	Block	the	websites	that	distract	you	the
most.	Make	sure	that	only	the	communication	channels	you	need	to	complete
your	task	are	open.	Most	tasks	require	some	communication,	but	having	ten
different	ways	to	communicate	is	overkill.	Once	only	relevant	information	is
visible	on	your	screen,	arrange	your	windows	for	perfect	workflow.
    Show	your	smartphone	who’s	boss	by	disabling	all	notifications—both	audio
and	visual.	This	is	an	important	step	toward	checking	your	phone	on	your	own
schedule	and	thus	regaining	control	of	your	life.

But	What	 about	 Emergencies?

78
But	 What	  about	 Emergencies?

Workers	with	responsibility	for	young	children,	elderly	parents,	or	disabled
relatives	may	feel	that	unplugging	from	technology	or	disabling	notifications	is
simply	not	an	option.	What	if	their	elderly	parent	slips	in	the	bath	or	their	young
child	has	an	emergency	at	day	care?
    This	is	an	absolutely	valid	concern.	The	solution,	however,	is	not	to	be
available	to	everyone	at	all	times.	Rather,	create	a	phone	number,	e-mail	address,
or	other	communication	channel	that	only	the	caretaker	of	your	loved	one	knows
about.	Leave	that	channel	open,	and	reserve	it	for	emergencies.
    If	you	desire,	you	can	do	this	for	your	work	life	as	well.	Give	your	boss	or
key	clients	a	way	to	reach	you	that	no	one	else	has.	You	could	also	program	your
e-mail	manager	to	automatically	sort	e-mails	from	your	most	important	work
relationships	into	a	“Read	First”	folder.
    In	other	words,	segment	your	communication	channels	so	that	only	frogs	can
hop	into	your	castle	of	concentration.


Take	 Control	  of	 Your	  Time

Your	calendar	makes	a	wonderful	servant	but	a	terrible	master.	Never
automatically	click	Accept	on	a	digital	invitation.	Ask	yourself	if	the	invitation
really	fits	your	priorities	before	pressing	the	button.
    Schedule	large	blocks	of	time	for	task	completion	into	your	calendar,	as	if
they	were	appointments.	Be	so	aggressive	about	it	that	when	people	look	at	your
calendar,	they	will	see	only	a	tiny	slice	of	free	time.	This	will	impress	them	and
motivate	them	to	schedule	shorter	meetings.
    Your	digital	to-do	list	(otherwise	known	as	“task	management	software”)	is	a
powerful	tool	for	taking	control	of	your	time.	It	has	all	the	positives	of	a	paper
to-do	list	plus	a	few	additional	features.
    Digital	to-do	lists	allow	you	to	transfer	items	to	another	person’s	to-do	list	at
the	click	of	a	button.	This	can	help	you	delegate	more	efficiently—but	make	sure
you	accept	only	those	tasks	that	are	in	line	with	your	priorities.	A	digital	to-do
list	can	also	be	programmed	to	remind	you	relentlessly	about	your	most
important	tasks.


Take	 Control	  of	 Your	  Emotions	  Using	  Technology

Many	people	fail	to	make	technology	their	servant	because	they	fear	learning
new	skills.	This	fear	can	be	mastered:	refuse	to	let	it	hold	you	back.	Everything

79
is	learnable,	and	what	others	have	learned,	you	can	learn	as	well.
    Let	 your	organization	know	 that	you	are	interested	in	learning	about
technological	tools	that	will	 make	you	more	efficient.	 If	 you	have	a	friend,
family	 member,	or	coworker	who	is	a	tech	whiz,	learn	everything	 you	can	from
that	person.
    Above	 all	else,	avoid	the	phrase	“I	can’t.”	 Technology	is	 no	longer	optional;
it	is	just	as	important	as	reading,	writing,	 and	arithmetic.	And	the	idea	that	only
certain	kinds	of	people	are	good	at	technology	is	a	myth.	No	matter	your	age,
race,	or	gender,	you	have	the	power	to	master	technology.	If	you	do	become
frustrated,	just	remember	that	it	happens	to	everyone;	even	expert	programmers
who	are	paid	hundreds	of	dollars	an	hour	will	 sometimes	be	frustrated	by
technology.
    When	you	 make	technology	your	servant,	it	can	be	a	source	of	positive,
motivating	emotions	and	increased	productivity.	 Post	your	most	important
stretch	goal	on	social	media	and	promise	your	followers	you	 will	 achieve	that
goal.	Update	them	daily	on	your	progress	so	that	if	you	skip	 a	day	or	slack	off,
everyone	will	 know.
    Posting	on	social	media	about	your	progress	is	a	great	way	to	reward	yourself
for	making	headway	on	long-term	 projects.	When	the	payoff	is	far	in	 the	future,
it	can	be	hard	to	stay	motivated,	so	getting	likes	or	hearts	from	your	followers	 on
your	daily	updates	can	be	a	way	to	achieve	a	minipayoff.
    You	 can	even	seek	out	people	in	your	field	on	social	media	and	compete	with
them	to	see	who	can	eat	the	most	frogs.	For	example,	many	novelists	like	to
share	their	daily	word	counts	on	Twitter	 so	they	can	see	who	in	their	social	circle
is	the	fastest	and	most	productive	writer—and	who	gives	in	 to	procrastination.
    Stop	being	enslaved	by	social	media,	and	make	it	work	 for	you	instead.	It’s
simple:	instead	of	posting	something	trite,	post	about	your	life	 goals	and	seek	the
social	support	to	conquer	them.

80
                               EAT	   THAT	     FROG!


1.	Resolve	today	to	turn	off	all	notifications,	except	for	your	emergency
channels.	Create	special	areas	in	your	digital	life	for	your	most	important
tasks.

2.	Resolve	to	research	and	install	one	piece	of	software	or	one	app	that	will
help	you	be	more	efficient	and	focused.

81
17	  Focus	       Your	       Attention


        All	 of	life	 is	the	study	of	attention;	where	your	attention	goes,
        your	life	 follows.

      JIDDU	KRISHNAMURTI


Focused	attention	is	the	key	to	high	performance.	The	“attraction	of	distraction,”
the	lure	of	electronic	and	other	interruptions,	leads	to	diffused	attention,	a
wandering	mind,	a	lack	of	focus,	and,	ultimately,	under-achievement	and	failure.
    Current	research	proves	that	continuously	responding	and	reacting	to	e-mails,
telephone	calls	and	texts,	and	instant	messages	(IM)	has	a	negative	effect	on
your	brain,	shortening	your	attention	span	and	making	it	difficult,	if	not
impossible,	for	you	to	complete	the	tasks	upon	which	your	future	and	your
success	depend.1

Developing	an	 Addiction

When	you	check	your	e-mail	first	thing	in	the	morning	or	when	you	respond	to
the	bell	or	other	sound	that	indicates	an	incoming	e-mail	or	message,	your	brain
releases	a	tiny	shot	of	dopamine.	This	shot	gives	you	a	pleasant	“buzz.”	It
stimulates	your	curiosity	and	causes	you	to	react	and	respond	immediately.	You
instantly	forget	whatever	else	you	were	doing	and	turn	your	full	attention	to	the
new	message.
    Like	the	sound	of	bells	ringing	when	you	win	while	playing	a	slot	machine,
the	sound	of	the	e-mail	or	IM	triggers	the	reaction	of	“What	did	I	win?”	You
immediately	stop	your	work	to	find	out	what	your	“prize”	is.
    When	you	start	your	day	with	a	few	shots	of	dopamine	triggered	by	your	e-
mail	or	IM	bell	going	off,	you	find	it	extremely	difficult	to	pay	close	attention	to
your	important	tasks	for	the	rest	of	the	day.

The	Multitasking	   Illusion

82
The	 Multitasking	      Illusion

Some	people	believe	that	they	can	engage	in	multitasking,	going	back	and	forth
between	e-mails	and	important	tasks.	But	people	can	focus	only	on	one	thing	at	a
time.	What	they	are	really	doing	is	 called	“task	shifting.”	 They	 are	shifting	their
attention	back	and	forth,	like	swinging	 a	searchlight	from	one	object	to	another.
    After	 an	Internet	interruption,	 it	takes	about	seventeen	minutes	for	you	to	shift
your	total	attention	back	to	your	 task	and	continue	working.	This	is	precisely
why	so	many	people	today	are	working	harder	and	harder,	shifting	from	 e-mail
interruptions	to	work	 and	back	again,	all	day	long,	and	getting	less	and	less
accomplished.	They	also	make	more	mistakes.


The	 Proven	   Solutions

The	solutions	are	simple	and	are	being	adopted	by	the	most	productive	people	in
every	industry.	First,	don’t	 check	your	e-mail	in	 the	morning	and	immediately
trigger	the	all-day	dopamine	addiction.	 Leave	your	devices	off.
    Second,	if	you	 must	check	your	e-mail	for	 any	reason,	get	in	and	out	fast,	and
get	back	to	work.	Turn	off	 the	sound	on	your	computer,	and	put	your	phone	on
“vibrate.”	 Stop	the	stimulations	that	trigger	 the	flow	of	 dopamine	and	lead	to
continuous	interruptions.
    Finally,	 resolve	to	check	your	e-mail	 only	twice	 a	day,	at	11:00	a.m.	and	3:00
p.m.,	and	then	turn	it	off	again	each	time.	Provide	a	telephone	number	where
someone	can	reach	you	in	an	emergency.
    Whenever	you	are	in	a	meeting	with	 one	or	more	people,	follow	 the	same
protocol.	Leave	electronic	devices	off.	 Never	insult	the	persons	you	are	meeting
with	by	working	 on	your	 laptop	or	answering	your	phone.	Pay	100	percent
attention	to	the	other	people.	This	applies	at	home	as	well.


Double	  Your	   Productivity

Here	is	a	simple	way	to	double	your	productivity.	 First,	 plan	each	day	in
advance,	select	your	most	important	task,	and	then	start	on	that	task	first	thing,
before	you	do	anything	else.	Second,	work	nonstop	for	ninety	minutes	with	 no
diversion	or	distraction,	and	then	give	yourself	 a	fifteen-minute	 break.	Third,
start	again	and	work	another	ninety	minutes	flat	out.	Finally,	 after	this	three-hour
work	period,	you	can	then	reward	yourself	 with	a	shot	of	dopamine	by	checking
your	e-mail.
    When	you	 develop	the	habit	of	completing	three	hours	of	important	 work

83
each	morning,	first	thing,	you	will	both	double	your	productivity	and	break
yourself	of	the	habit	of	checking	your	e-mail	all	day	long.	You	will	regain	full
control	of	your	life.











                                     EAT	    THAT	      FROG!


   1.	Keep	your	goals	of	success	and	high	productivity	in	mind.	Before	you	do
   anything,	ask	yourself,	“Is	this	helping	me	achieve	one	of	my	most
   important	goals,	or	is	this	just	a	distraction?”

   2.	Refuse	to	become	a	slave	to	the	bells	and	whistles	that	distract	you	from
   completing	those	tasks	that	can	make	a	real	difference	in	your	life.	Leave
   your	devices	off.

84
18	  Slice	      and	     Dice	     the	     Task


        The	beginning	of	a	habit	is	like	 an	invisible	thread,	but	every
        time	we	repeat	the	act	we	strengthen	the	strand,	add	to	it	another
        filament,	until	 it	becomes	a	great	cable	and	binds	us	irrevocably,
        in	thought	and	act.

      ORISON	SWETT	MARDEN


A	major	reason	for	procrastinating	on	big,	important	tasks	is	that	they	appear	so
large	and	formidable	when	you	first	approach	them.
    One	technique	that	you	can	use	to	cut	a	big	task	down	to	size	is	the	“salami
slice”	method	of	getting	work	done.	With	this	method,	you	lay	out	the	task	in
detail,	writing	down	every	step	in	order,	and	then	resolve	to	do	just	one	slice	of
the	job	for	the	time	being,	like	eating	a	roll	of	salami	one	slice	at	a	time—or	like
eating	an	elephant	one	bite	at	a	time.
    Psychologically,	you	will	find	it	easier	to	do	a	single,	small	piece	of	a	large
project	than	to	start	on	the	whole	job.	Often,	once	you	have	started	and
completed	a	single	part	of	the	job,	you	will	feel	like	doing	just	one	more	slice.
Soon,	you	will	find	yourself	working	through	the	job	one	part	at	a	time,	and
before	you	know	it,	the	job	will	be	completed.

Develop	a	Compulsion	 to	 Closure

An	important	point	to	remember	is	that	you	have	deep	within	you	an	“urge	to
completion,”	or	what	is	often	referred	to	as	a	“compulsion	to	closure.”	This
means	that	you	actually	feel	happier	and	more	powerful	when	you	start	and
complete	a	task	of	any	kind.	You	satisfy	a	deep	subconscious	need	to	bring
finality	to	a	job	or	project.	This	sense	of	completion	or	closure	motivates	you	to
start	the	next	task	or	project	and	then	to	persist	toward	final	completion.	This	act
of	completion	triggers	the	release	of	endorphins	in	your	brain,	mentioned	earlier.
    And	the	bigger	the	task	you	start	and	complete,	the	better	and	more	elated	you

85
    And	 the	bigger	the	task	you	start	and	complete,	the	better	and	more	elated	you
feel.	The	bigger	the	frog	you	eat,	the	greater	the	surge	of	personal	power	and
energy	you	experience.
    When	you	 start	and	finish	a	small	piece	of	a	task,	you	feel	motivated	to	start
and	finish	another	part,	then	another,	and	so	on.	Each	small	step	forward
energizes	you.	You	soon	develop	an	inner	drive	that	motivates	you	to	carry
through	to	completion.


“Swiss	  Cheese”	   Your	  Tasks

Another	technique	you	can	use	is	called	the	“Swiss	cheese”	method	of	working.
You	use	this	technique	to	get	yourself	into	gear	by	resolving	 to	punch	a	hole	in
the	task,	like	a	hole	in	a	block	of	Swiss	cheese.
    You	 “Swiss	cheese”	a	task	when	you	resolve	to	work	for	 a	specific	time
period	on	it.	This	may	be	as	little	 as	five	or	ten	minutes,	after	which	you	will
stop	and	do	something	else.	You	will	just	take	one	bite	of	 your	frog	and	then	rest
or	do	something	else.
    The	power	of	 this	method	is	similar	 to	that	of	the	salami	slice	method.	Once
you	start	working,	you	 develop	a	sense	of	forward	momentum	and	a	feeling	of
accomplishment.	You	become	energized	and	enthusiastic.	You	feel	yourself
internally	motivated	 and	propelled	to	keep	going	until	the	task	is	complete.
    You	 should	try	the	salami	slice	or	the	Swiss	cheese	method	on	any	task	that
seems	overwhelming	when	you	approach	it	for	the	first	 time.	You	will	  be
amazed	at	how	helpful	each	technique	is	in	overcoming	procrastination.
    I	 have	several	friends	who	have	become	bestselling	authors	by	simply
resolving	to	write	 one	page	or	even	one	paragraph	per	day	until	the	book	was
completed.	And	you	can	do	the	same.












                                        EAT	     THAT	       FROG!

86
1.	Put	the	“salami	slice”	 or	“Swiss	cheese”	technique	into	action
immediately	to	get	started	on	a	large,	complex,	multitask	job	 that	you’ve
been	putting	off.

2.	Become	action	oriented.	A	common	quality	 of	high	performers	is	 that
when	they	hear	a	good	idea,	they	take	action	on	it	immediately.	Don’t
delay.	Try	it	today!

87
19	  Create	         Large	       Chunks	          of	   Time


        Nothing	can	add	more	power	to	your	life	 than	concentrating	all
        of	your	energies	on	a	limited	set	of	targets.

      NIDO	QUBEIN


Most	of	the	really	important	work	you	do	requires	large	chunks	of	unbroken
time	to	complete.	Your	ability	to	carve	out	and	use	these	blocks	of	high-value,
highly	productive	time	is	central	to	your	ability	to	make	a	significant
contribution	to	your	work	and	to	your	life.
    Successful	salespeople	set	aside	a	specific	time	period	each	day	to	phone
prospects.	Rather	than	procrastinating	or	delaying	on	a	task	that	they	don’t
particularly	like,	they	resolve	that	they	will	phone	for	one	solid	hour—between
10:00	and	11:00	a.m.,	for	example—and	they	discipline	themselves	to	follow
through	on	their	resolution.
    Many	business	executives	set	aside	a	specific	time	each	day	to	call	customers
directly	to	get	feedback,	to	return	phone	calls,	or	to	answer	correspondence.
Some	people	allocate	specific	thirty-to-sixty-minute	time	periods	each	day	for
exercise.	Many	people	read	great	books	fifteen	minutes	each	night	before
retiring.	In	this	way,	over	time,	they	eventually	read	dozens	of	the	best	books
ever	written.

Schedule	Blocks	of	 Time

The	key	to	the	success	of	this	method	of	working	in	specific	time	segments	is	for
you	to	plan	your	day	in	advance	and	schedule	a	fixed	time	period	for	a	particular
activity	or	task.	Make	work	appointments	with	yourself	and	then	discipline
yourself	to	keep	them.	Set	aside	thirty-,	sixty-,	and	ninety-minute	time	segments
that	you	use	to	work	on	and	complete	important	tasks.
    Many	highly	productive	people	schedule	specific	activities	in	preplanned	time
slots	all	day	long.	These	people	build	their	work	lives	around	accomplishing	key
tasks	one	at	a	time.	As	a	result,	they	become	more	and	more	productive	and

88
tasks	one	at	a	time.	As	a	result,	they	become	more	and	more	productive	and
eventually	produce	two	times,	three	times,	and	five	times	as	much	as	the	average
person.


Use	a	 Time	  Planner

A	time	planner,	broken	down	 by	day,	hour,	and	minute	and	organized	in
advance,	can	be	one	of	the	most	powerful	personal	productivity	tools	of	all.	 It
enables	you	to	see	where	you	can	consolidate	and	create	blocks	of	time	for
concentrated	work.
    During	 these	working	times,	turn	 off	the	telephone,	eliminate	all	distractions,
and	work	nonstop.	One	of	the	best	work	habits	of	all	is	 to	get	up	early	and	work
at	home	in	the	morning	for	two	 to	three	hours.	You	can	get	three	times	as	much
work	done	at	home	without	interruptions	 as	you	ever	could	in	a	busy	office
where	you	are	surrounded	by	people	and	bombarded	by	phone	calls.


Make	  Every	   Minute	   Count

When	you	fly	 on	business,	you	can	create	your	office	in	the	air	by	planning	your
work	thoroughly	 before	you	depart.	When	the	plane	takes	off,	you	can	work
nonstop	for	the	entire	flight.	 You	will	 be	amazed	at	how	much	work	you	can	go
through	when	you	work	steadily	 in	an	airplane,	without	 interruptions.
    One	of	the	keys	to	high	 levels	of	performance	and	productivity	 is	to	make
every	minute	count.	Use	travel	and	transition	times,	what	are	often	called	“gifts
of	time,”	 to	complete	small	chunks	of	larger	tasks.












                                        EAT	     THAT	       FROG!


    1.	Think	continually	 of	 different	ways	that	you	can	save,	schedule,	and

89
consolidate	large	chunks	of	time.	Use	these	times	to	work	on	important
tasks	with	the	most	significant	long-term	 consequences.

2.	Make	every	minute	count.	Work	 steadily	and	continuously	without
diversion	or	distraction	by	 planning	and	preparing	your	work	 in	advance.
Most	of	all,	 keep	focused	on	the	most	important	results	for	which	you	are
responsible.

90
20	  Develop	          a	  Sense	     of	   Urgency


        Do	not	wait;	 the	time	will	 never	be	“just	right.”	 Start	where	you
        stand,	and	work	with	whatever	tools	you	may	have	at	your
        command,	and	better	tools	will	be	found	as	you	go	along.

      NAPOLEON	HILL


Perhaps	the	most	outwardly	identifiable	quality	of	high-performing	men	and
women	is	action	orientation.	They	are	in	a	hurry	to	get	their	key	tasks	completed.
    Highly	productive	people	take	the	time	to	think,	plan,	and	set	priorities.	They
then	launch	quickly	and	strongly	toward	their	goals	and	objectives.	They	work
steadily,	smoothly,	and	continuously.	As	a	result,	they	seem	to	power	through
enormous	amounts	of	work	in	the	same	amount	of	time	that	the	average	person
spends	socializing,	wasting	time,	and	working	on	low-value	activities.

Getting	 into	“Flow”

When	you	work	on	your	most	important	tasks	at	a	high	and	continuous	level	of
activity,	you	can	actually	enter	into	an	amazing	mental	state	called	“flow.”
Almost	everyone	has	experienced	this	at	some	time.	Really	successful	people	are
those	who	get	themselves	into	this	state	far	more	often	than	the	average	person.
    When	you’re	in	the	state	of	flow,	which	is	the	highest	human	state	of
performance	and	productivity,	something	almost	miraculous	happens	to	your
mind	and	emotions.	You	feel	elated	and	clear.	Everything	you	do	seems
effortless	and	accurate.	You	feel	happy	and	energized.	You	experience	a
tremendous	sense	of	calm	and	increased	personal	effectiveness.
    In	the	state	of	flow,	identified	and	talked	about	over	the	centuries,	you
actually	function	on	a	higher	plane	of	clarity,	creativity,	and	competence.	You
are	more	sensitive	and	aware.	Your	insight	and	intuition	guide	you	and	direct
you	to	do	and	say	exactly	the	right	things	at	the	right	time.	You	see	the
interconnectedness	of	people	and	circumstances	around	you.	You	often	come	up

91
interconnectedness	of	people	and	circumstances	around	you.	You	often	come	up
with	brilliant	 ideas	and	insights	that	enable	you	to	move	ahead	even	more
rapidly.


Trigger	   High	   Performance	     in	 Yourself

One	of	the	ways	you	can	trigger	this	state	of	flow	 is	by	developing	a	sense	of
urgency.	This	is	an	inner	drive	and	desire	to	get	on	with	the	job	quickly	 and	get
it	done	fast.	It	is	an	impatience	that	motivates	you	to	get	going	and	to	keep
going.	A	sense	of	urgency	feels	very	much	like	racing	 against	yourself.
    With	 this	ingrained	sense	of	urgency,	you	develop	a	“bias	for	 action.”	You
take	action	rather	than	talking	continually	 about	what	you	are	going	to	do.	You
focus	on	specific	steps	you	can	take	immediately.	You	concentrate	on	the	things
you	can	do	right	now	to	get	the	results	you	want	and	achieve	the	goals	you
desire.
    A	 fast	tempo	seems	to	go	hand	in	hand	with	all	great	success.	Developing	this
tempo	requires	that	you	start	moving	and	keep	moving	at	a	steady	rate.	The
faster	you	move,	the	more	impelled	you	feel	to	do	even	more	even	faster.	You
enter	“the	zone.”


Build	  Up	  a	Sense	 of	 Momentum

When	you	regularly	take	continuous	action	toward	 your	most	important	goals,
you	activate	the	Momentum	Principle	 of	Success.	This	principle	says	that
although	it	may	take	tremendous	amounts	of	energy	to	overcome	inertia	and	get
started	initially,	 it	then	takes	far	less	energy	to	keep	going.
    The	good	news	is	that	the	faster	you	move,	the	more	energy	you	have.	The
faster	you	move,	the	more	you	get	done	and	the	more	effective	you	feel.	The
faster	you	move,	the	more	experience	you	get	and	the	more	you	learn.	The	faster
you	move,	the	more	competent	and	capable	you	become	at	your	work.
    A	 sense	of	urgency	shifts	you	automatically	onto	the	fast	track	in	 your	career.
The	faster	you	work	and	the	more	you	get	done,	the	higher	will	 be	your	levels	of
self-esteem,	self-respect,	and	personal	pride.	You	will	feel	in	 complete	control	of
your	life	 and	your	work.


Do	 It	 Now!

One	of	the	simplest	and	yet	most	powerful	ways	to	get	yourself	 started	is	to
repeat	the	words	“Do	it	now!	 Do	it	 now!	Do	it	 now!”	 over	and	over	to	yourself.

92
    If	you	feel	yourself	slowing	down	or	becoming	distracted	by	conversations	or
low-value	activities,	repeat	to	yourself	the	words	“Back	to	work!	Back	to	work!
Back	to	work!”	over	and	over.
    In	the	final	analysis,	nothing	will	help	you	more	in	your	career	than	for	you	to
get	the	reputation	for	being	the	kind	of	person	who	gets	important	work	done
quickly	and	well.	This	reputation	will	make	you	one	of	the	most	valuable	and
respected	people	in	your	field.











                                     EAT	    THAT	      FROG!


   1.	Resolve	today	to	develop	a	sense	of	urgency	in	everything	you	do.	Select
   one	area	where	you	have	a	tendency	to	procrastinate,	and	make	a	decision
   to	develop	the	habit	of	fast	action	in	that	area.

   2.	When	you	see	an	opportunity	or	a	problem,	take	action	on	it
   immediately.	When	you	are	given	a	task	or	responsibility,	take	care	of	it
   quickly	and	report	back	fast.	Move	rapidly	in	every	important	area	of	your
   life.	 You	will	be	amazed	at	how	much	better	you	feel	and	how	much	more
   you	get	done.

93
21	  Single	        Handle	         Every	        Task


        Herein	lies	the	secret	of	true	power.	Learn,	by	constant	practice,
        how	to	husband	your	resources,	and	to	concentrate	them	at	any
        given	moment	upon	a	given	point.

      JAMES	ALLEN


Eat	that	frog!	Every	bit	of	planning,	prioritizing,	and	organizing	comes	down	to
this	simple	concept.
    Every	great	achievement	of	humankind	has	been	preceded	by	a	long	period	of
hard,	concentrated	work	until	the	job	was	done.	Your	ability	to	select	your	most
important	task,	to	begin	it,	and	then	to	concentrate	on	it	single-mindedly	until	it
is	complete	is	the	key	to	high	levels	of	performance	and	personal	productivity.

Once	You	Get	 Going,	Keep	 Going

Single	handling	requires	that	once	you	begin,	you	keep	working	at	the	task
without	diversion	or	distraction	until	the	job	is	100	percent	complete.	You	keep
urging	yourself	onward	by	repeating	the	words	“Back	to	work!”	over	and	over
whenever	you	are	tempted	to	stop	or	do	something	else.
    By	concentrating	single-mindedly	on	your	most	important	task,	you	can
reduce	the	time	required	to	complete	it	by	50	percent	or	more.
    It	has	been	estimated	that	the	tendency	to	start	and	stop	a	task—to	pick	it	up,
put	it	down,	and	come	back	to	it—can	increase	the	time	necessary	to	complete
the	task	by	as	much	as	500	percent.	Each	time	you	return	to	the	task,	you	have	to
familiarize	yourself	with	where	you	were	when	you	stopped	and	what	you	still
have	to	do.	You	have	to	overcome	inertia	and	get	yourself	going	again.	You
have	to	develop	momentum	and	get	into	a	productive	work	rhythm.
    But	when	you	prepare	thoroughly	and	then	begin,	refusing	to	stop	or	turn
aside	until	the	job	is	done,	you	develop	energy,	enthusiasm,	and	motivation.	You
get	better	and	better	and	more	productive.	You	work	faster	and	more	effectively.

94
get	better	and	better	and	more	productive.	You	work	faster	and	more	effectively.


Don’t	  Waste	   Time

The	truth	is	that	once	you	have	decided	on	your	number	one	task,	anything	else
that	you	do	other	than	that	is	a	relative	waste	of	time.	Any	other	activity	 is	just
not	as	valuable	or	as	important	as	this	job,	based	on	your	own	priorities.
    The	more	you	discipline	 yourself	 to	working	 nonstop	on	a	single	task,	the
more	you	progress	along	the	“efficiency	 curve.”	You	 get	more	and	more	high-
quality	work	 done	in	less	and	less	time.
    Each	time	you	 stop	working,	however,	you	 break	this	cycle	and	move	back
along	the	curve	to	where	every	part	of	the	task	is	more	difficult	 and	time
consuming.


Self-Discipline	     Is	 the	 Key

Elbert	Hubbard	defined	self-discipline	 as	“the	ability	 to	make	yourself	do	what
you	should	do,	when	you	should	do	it,	whether	you	feel	 like	it	 or	not.”
    In	 the	final	analysis,	success	in	any	area	requires	tons	of	discipline.	Self-
discipline,	self-mastery,	and	self-control	 are	the	basic	building	blocks	of	 both
character	and	high	performance.
    Starting	 a	high-priority	 task	and	persisting	with	that	task	until	 it	is	100	percent
complete	is	the	true	test	of	your	character,	your	willpower,	 and	your	resolve.
Persistence	is	actually	self-discipline	in	action.	The	good	news	is	that	the	more
you	discipline	yourself	 to	persist	on	a	major	task,	the	more	you	like	and	respect
yourself,	and	the	higher	is	your	self-esteem.	And	the	more	you	like	 and	respect
yourself,	the	easier	it	is	for	you	to	 discipline	yourself	 to	persist	even	more.
    By	 focusing	clearly	 on	your	most	valuable	task	and	concentrating	single-
mindedly	until	 it	is	100	percent	complete,	you	actually	 shape	and	mold	your	own
character.	You	become	a	superior	person.
    You	 feel	stronger,	more	competent,	more	confident,	and	happier.	You	feel
more	powerful	and	productive.
    You	 eventually	feel	capable	of	setting	and	achieving	any	goal.	You	 become
the	master	of	your	own	destiny.	You	place	yourself	 on	an	ascending	spiral	of
personal	effectiveness	on	which	your	future	is	absolutely	guaranteed.
    And	 the	key	to	all	of	 this	is	for	you	to	determine	the	most	valuable	and
important	thing	you	 could	possibly	do	at	every	single	moment	and	then	Eat	That
Frog!

95
                                 EAT	    THAT	      FROG!


1.	Take	action!	Resolve	today	to	select	the	most	important	task	or	project
that	you	could	complete	and	then	launch	into	it	immediately.

2.	Once	you	start	your	most	important	task,	discipline	yourself	to	persevere
without	diversion	or	distraction	until	it	is	100	percent	complete.	See	it	as	a
test	to	determine	whether	you	are	the	kind	of	person	who	can	make	a
decision	to	complete	something	and	then	carry	it	out.	Once	you	begin,
refuse	to	stop	until	the	job	is	finished.

96
       Conclusion:	               Putting	         It	   All	     Together




     The	key	to	happiness,	satisfaction,	great	success,	and	a	wonderful	feeling	of
personal	power	and	effectiveness	is	for	you	to	develop	the	habit	of	eating	your
frog	first	thing	every	day	when	you	start	work.
    Fortunately,	this	is	a	learnable	skill	that	you	can	acquire	through	repetition.
And	when	you	develop	the	habit	of	starting	on	your	most	important	task	before
anything	else,	your	success	is	assured.
    Here	is	a	summary	of	the	twenty-one	great	ways	to	stop	procrastinating	and
get	more	things	done	faster.	Review	these	rules	and	principles	regularly	until
they	become	firmly	ingrained	in	your	thinking	and	actions,	and	your	future	will
be	guaranteed.

1.		Set	the	table:	Decide	exactly	what	you	want.	Clarity	is	essential.	Write	out
     your	goals	and	objectives	before	you	begin.

2.		Plan	every	day	in	advance:	Think	on	paper.	Every	minute	you	spend	in
     planning	can	save	you	five	or	ten	minutes	in	execution.

3.		Apply	the	80/20	Rule	to	everything:	Twenty	percent	of	your	activities	will
     account	for	80	percent	of	your	results.	Always	concentrate	your	efforts	on
     that	top	20	percent.

4.		Consider	the	consequences:	Your	most	important	tasks	and	priorities	are
     those	that	can	have	the	most	serious	consequences,	positive	or	negative,	on
     your	life	or	work.	Focus	on	these	above	all	else.

5.		Practice	creative	procrastination:	Since	you	can’t	do	everything,	you	must
     learn	to	deliberately	put	off	those	tasks	that	are	of	low	value	so	that	you	have
     enough	time	to	do	the	few	things	that	really	count.

97
 6.		Use	the	 ABCDE	 Method	 continually:	   Before	you	begin	work	 on	a	list	of
       tasks,	take	a	few	moments	to	organize	them	by	value	and	priority	 so	you	can
       be	sure	of	working	 on	your	most	important	 activities.

 7.		Focus	 on	key	result	 areas:	 Identify	 those	results	that	you	absolutely,
       positively	 have	to	get	to	do	your	job	 well,	and	work	 on	them	all	day	long.

 8.		Apply	  the	Law	 of	Three:	  Identify	 the	three	things	you	do	in	your	work	 that
       account	for	 90	percent	of	your	contribution,	 and	focus	on	getting	them	done
       before	anything	 else.	You	will	 then	have	more	time	for	your	 family	 and
       personal	life.

 9.		Prepare	 thoroughly	  before	 you	begin:	 Have	everything	 you	need	at	hand
       before	you	 start.	Assemble	all	the	papers,	information,	tools,	work	 materials,
       and	numbers	you	might	 require	so	that	you	can	get	started	and	keep	going.

10.		Take	it	 one	oil	barrel	  at	a	time:	 You	 can	accomplish	the	biggest	and	most
       complicated	 job	if	 you	just	complete	it	one	step	at	a	time.

11.		Upgrade	your	 key	 skills:	 The	more	knowledgeable	and	skilled	you	 become
       at	your	 key	tasks,	the	faster	you	start	them	and	the	sooner	you	get	them	done.
       Determine	 exactly	what	it	 is	that	you	are	very	good	at	doing,	or	could	be
       very	 good	at,	and	throw	your	whole	heart	into	 doing	those	specific	things
       very,	 very	well.

12.		Identify	 your	 key	 constraints:	 Determine	 the	bottlenecks	or	choke	points,
       internal	 or	external,	that	set	the	speed	at	which	you	achieve	your	most
       important	 goals,	and	focus	on	alleviating	them.

13.		Put	the	pressure	 on	yourself:	  Imagine	that	you	have	to	leave	town	for	a
       month,	 and	work	as	if	you	had	to	get	your	major	 task	completed	before	you
       left.

14.		Motivate	 yourself	 into	 action:	 Be	your	 own	cheerleader.	Look	for	the	good
       in	 every	situation.	Focus	on	the	solution	rather	than	the	problem.	Always	 be
       optimistic	 and	constructive.

15.		Technology	 is	a	terrible	 master:	 Take	back	your	 time	from	enslaving
       technological	 addictions.	Learn	to	often	turn	 devices	off	and	leave	them	off.

98
16.		Technology	 is	a	wonderful	 servant:	  Use	your	technological	tools	to
       confront	 yourself	with	 what	is	most	important	 and	protect	yourself	from
       what	 is	least	important.

17.		Focus	your	 attention:	 Stop	the	interruptions	 and	distractions	that	interfere
       with	 completing	 your	most	important	tasks.

18.		Slice	and	dice	the	 task:	Break	large,	complex	 tasks	down	into	bite-sized
       pieces,	and	then	do	just	one	small	part	of	the	task	to	get	started.

19.		Create	large	 chunks	 of	time:	 Organize	your	days	around	large	blocks	of
       time	 so	you	can	concentrate	for	extended	periods	on	your	most	important
       tasks.

20.		Develop	a	sense	of	urgency:	 Make	a	habit	of	moving	 fast	on	your	key	tasks.
       Become	known	 as	a	person	who	does	things	quickly	and	well.

21.		Single	handle	 every	task:	 Set	clear	priorities,	start	immediately	 on	your
       most	important	 task,	and	then	work	without	 stopping	until	the	job	 is	100
       percent	complete.	This	is	 the	real	key	to	high	performance	and	maximum
       personal	productivity.


      Make	a	decision	to	practice	these	principles	every	day	until	 they	become
 second	nature	to	you.	With	these	habits	of	personal	management	as	a	permanent
 part	of	your	 personality,	your	future	 success	will	be	unlimited.
      Just	do	it!	Eat	that	 frog!

99
        Notes




Chapter	4

1.		Andrew	Blackman,	“The	Inner	Workings	of	the	Executive	Brain,”	Wall
    Street	Journal,	April	27,	2014.


Chapter	15

1.		Elizabeth	Segran,	“What	Really	Happens	to	Your	Body	and	Brain	During	a
    Digital	 Detox,”	Fast	Company,	July	30,	2015,
    http://www.fastcompany.com/3049138/most-creative-people/what-really-
    happens-to-your-brain-and-body-during-a-digital-detox.
2.		Lisa	Eadicicco,	“Americans	Check	Their	Phones	8	Billion	Times	a	Day,”
    Time,	December	15,	2015,	http://time.com/4147614/smartphone-usage-us-
    2015/.
3.		Lancaster	University,	“How	We	Use	Our	Smartphones	Twice	as	Much	as	We
    Think,”	 ScienceDaily,	October	29,	2015,
    https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015/10/151029124647.htm.


Chapter	17

1.		Leon	Watson,	“Humans	Have	Shorter	Attention	Span	Than	Goldfish,	Thanks
    To	Smartphones,”	Telegraph,	May	15,	2015,
    http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/2016/03/12/humans-have-shorter-
    attention-span-than-goldfish-thanks-to-smart/.

100
        Index




ABCDE	Method,	34–37,	106
accuracy,	striving	for,	66–67
achievements/
accomplishments
   versus	activity,	3
   constraints	to,	65–67,	107
   determinants	of	your,	1,	51,	57–58
   goals	as	fuel	for,	7–11,	70
   identifying	your	important,	67,	81
   list	making	for,	13–15
   personal	effectiveness,	28,	41,	63,	103
   underachievement,	24,	39,	86
action	bias,	98,	100
action	orientation,	93
actions,	12,	23–24,	36,	46–47,	53–54,	107
activities,	3,	19–20,	27,	31,	32–33
addictions,	4–5,	77–78,	86–87,	107
attention/focus,	86,	87–89,	108
attitude,	73–75

balance/moderation,	50–51
bias	for	action,	98
Big	Seven	result	areas,	39–40
big	three	tasks,	51

choke	points,	64
clarity,	7,	40

101
consequences,	22–29,	32,	35,	96,	105
constraints
   80/20	 Rule	applied	to,	65
   external/internal,	 65
   identifying	  key,	62–64,	67,	107
   continuous	 learning,	59–61
   core	competencies,	62
   creative	procrastination,	 30–33,	106
   crossing	the	desert	story,	56–57

deadlines,	9,	26–27,	71,	107
   imaginary,	 69–70
decision	making,	5,	8,	23–24
delegation	skills,	41
desert	story,	56–57
detaching	from	technology,	76–77
discipline,	5,	21
distractions,	86,	88,	95,	100,	104,	108

eating	the	frog	concept,	2–3,	105
efficiency,	40,	85.	See	also	single	handling	tasks;	time	management	efficiency
       curve,	102
80/20	Rule	(Pareto	Principle),	18–21,	65,	78,	105
e-mail,	78–79,	82,	87–88,	94
emergencies,	82–83
endorphins,	91
energy,	13

feedback,	43
flow	state,	97–98
forcing	system,	71
future	orientation/thinking,	 23–24,	37

gifts	of	 time,	96
goals/objectives
   bias	for	 action	for	reaching,	98
   exercises	for	achieving,	 11,	47–49

102
   identifying	  most	important,	51,	67
   launching	 toward	your,	53–54
   of	 optimists,	74
   power	 of	written,	 10–11
   steps	for	setting	and	achieving,	7–10
   stretch	goals,	84–85
   writing	  your,	8–11,	105

habits,	3–4,	5,	43,	68,	88–89,	105

improvement,	59–61
income,	steps	for	increasing,	7–10
inner	dialogue	(self-talk),	 72,	73,	99–100
interruptions,	87,	95,	108

key	result	areas,	38–39,	41–43,	106
   Big	 Seven,	39–40

Law	of	 Forced	Efficiency,	 25–26
Law	of	Three,	44–51,	106
learning,	59–62,	74,	84
limiting	 factors,	64.	See	also	constraints	list	making
   ABCDE	  Method	for,	36–37	80/20
   Rule	 applied	to,	18
   for	 goal	achievement,	9,	58
   prioritizing	  tasks,	21
   quick	 list	method,	47–49
   using	 technology	for,	83
   when/how	 to	make	lists,	13–15,	65
   See	also	thinking	 on	paper
long-term	thinking,	 23,	24–25
long	time	perspective,	22
losers	versus	winners,	25
lower-value	activities,	 31,	100

mastering	skills,	59–62
moderation/balance,	50–51

103
momentum,	99,	102
motivation
   finishing	 a	task	as,	91
   performance	and,	42,	60
   self-,	 20–21,	72,	107
   sources	of,	10,	15,	20
   waiting	 for,	 68
multitasking,	87
musts	versus	shoulds,	35–36

objectives.	See	goals/objectives
optimism/optimists,	 72,	73–75

performance/productivity
   action	 orientation	for,	 93
   asking	for	 appraisal	of	your,	43
   doubling	 your,	88–89
   grading	 your	results,	41
   high,	 98–99,	103,	108
   Law	 of	Three	for	 increasing,	46–47
   poor	 performance	in	key	result	areas,	39,	41–42
   questions	for	 maximizing,	 27–29
phone	calls,	94
plans.	See	preparation/planning
positive	addictions,	4–5
positive	attitude,	73–75
posteriorities,	31,	32–33
preparation/planning,	12,	106
   daily	 advance	planning,	105
   list	 making,	13–15,	17
   project	 planning,	15–16,	71
   time	 planners,	95
priorities/prioritizing
   ABCDE	  Method,	34–37
   higher-priority	  tasks,	103
   posteriorities,	 31,	32–33

104
   setting,	 1,	25,	27–28,	49
   to-do	 lists,	83
procrastination,	19
   creative,	30–33,	106
   listing	 steps	for	task	completion,	58
   overcoming,	 56,	105–108
   poor	 performance	and,	41–42
   preparation	for	 avoiding,	52–53
   reasons	for,	7,	59,	90
   unconscious	versus	purposeful,	31
See	also	task	management
productivity.	 See	performance/productivity
projects,	planning,	15–16

quick	list	 method,	47–49

reputation	with	 yourself,	69
role	modeling,	69

salami	slice	method,	90,	93,	108
   salaries/wages,	38
sales/salespeople,	18,	23–24,	39–40,	66,	94
saying	no,	31
self-assessment,	65–66
self-discipline,	103–104
self-esteem,	69,	103
self-talk	(inner	dialogue),	 72,	73,	99–100
sense	of	urgency,	97–99,	100,	108
setting	the	table	(writing	 out	goals),	105
short-term	decision	making,	23
shoulds	versus	musts,	35–36
single	handling	tasks,	101–104,	108
Six-P	Formula,	13
skills
   development	of,	 1,	6,	42–43
   fear	of	 learning	new,	83–85

105
   identifying	  needed,	62
   poor	 performance	of	key,	39
   steps	to	mastery,	61–62
   upgrading	 your,	59,	107
social	media,	84–85.	See	also	technology	state	of	flow,	97–98
stressors,	26–27,	78
stretch	goals,	84
success
   habits	of,	 3–4,	5
   state	of	flow	 and,	97–98
   thinking	 on	paper	for,	8–11
superior	thinkers,	22
Swiss	cheese	method,	91–92,	93

task	identification,	 44–47,	51
task	management
   ABCDE	  Method	for,	34–36,	106
   completion	 of	tasks,	3–4
   compulsion	 to	closure	for,	91
   deadlines	for,	 69–70,	71
   decision	 making	for,	23	80/20
   Rule	 applied	to,	19–20
   failure	 to	execute,	3
   focusing	 on	completion,	25
   high-importance	 tasks,	104
   Law	 of	Three,	44–51,	106
   low-value	 tasks,	20
   managing	communication	 technology,	81–82
   number	versus	importance	of,	19
   prioritizing,	  2–3,	17
   salami	slice	 method,	90,	108
   shoulds	versus	musts,	35–36
   Swiss	cheese	method,	91–92
   taking	 one	step	at	a	time,	57–58,	107
See	also	list	making;	procrastination;	single	handling	tasks	technology
   addiction	 to,	77–78

106
   communication	 management,	81–82
   controlling	  your	relationship	with,	 76–77
   distractions	 caused	by,	86–87
   handling	 emergencies,	82–83
   in	 meetings,	88
   as	servant	versus	master,	81,	107,	108
   social	 media,	84–85
   taking	 control	of	 emotions	using,	83–85
   taking	 your	time	back	from,	 78
   for	 time	control/management,	83
   unplugging	 from,	 79,	80,	82,	85,	89
telephone	calls,	94
tempo	of	work,	99,	100,	102
10/90	Rule,	16
thinking	on	paper,	8–11,	13–14,	34–35,	105
thinking/thinkers,	 12,	23–25,	33,	75
time	horizon,	22–23
time	management
creating	large	chunks	of	time,	108
   decision	 making	about,	23–24
   having	 a	sense	of	urgency,	97
   Law	 of	Forced	Efficiency,	 25–26
   making	 every	minute	count,	96
   as	means	to	an	end,	49
   most	valuable	 use	of	time,	28,	29
   planning,	 13
   quality	 versus	quantity	of	time,	 50
   saying	no,	31
   technology	 and,	78,	83
   using	 planners,	95
   wasting	 time,	50,	102
See	also	urgency
trivial	 many,	18,	19

urgency,	97–99,	100,	108

107
visualization,	 6,	74
vital	few,	 18,	19

wages/salaries,	38
wasting	time,	50,	102
winners	versus	losers,	25
workspace,	52–53,	55
writing	 your	goals,	8–11,	105

zero-based	thinking,	33
the	zone,	99
zones	of	silence,	80

108
      Learning	       Resources	     of	  Brian	    Tracy	     International


                                                        Brian	Tracy
                                             SPEAKER,	TRAINER,	SEMINAR	LEADER

Brian	Tracy	is	one	of	the	top	professional	speakers	in	the	world,	addressing	more
than	250,000	people	each	year	throughout	the	United	States,	Europe,	Asia,	and
Australia.
    Brian’s	keynote	speeches,	talks,	and	seminars	are	described	as	“inspiring,
entertaining,	informative,	and	motivational.”	His	audiences	include	Fortune	500
companies	and	every	size	of	business	and	association.
    Book	Brian	today	to	speak	on	one	of	the	following	topics:

Business	Model	Reinvention—How	to	grow	your	sales	and	profitability	in	any
market	by	analyzing	and	improving	your	business	model.

High	Performance	Selling—How	to	outthink,	outperform,	and	outsell	your
competition	using	the	most	advanced	strategies	and	tactics	known	to	modern
selling.

Maximum	Achievement—How	the	top	people	think	and	act	in	every	area	of
personal	and	business	life.	Countless	practical,	proven	methods	and	strategies	for
peak	performance.

Leadership	in	the	21st	Century—How	to	apply	the	most	powerful	leadership
principles	to	manage,	motivate,	and	get	better	results,	faster	than	ever	before.

    Brian	will	carefully	customize	his	talk	for	you	and	for	your	needs.	Visit	Brian
Tracy	International	at	http://www.briantracy.com/speaking/	for	more
information	on	how	to	book	Brian	for	your	next	event.

109
  Brian	     Tracy’s	       Online	     Training	        Programs—
 The	   Keys	    to	  Ultimate	       Success	   in	  Any	    Area	    of
                                         Your	     Life


                      Power	Productivity	  with	Brian	 Tracy

If	you	enjoyed	the	timeless	lessons	in	Eat	That	Frog!,	be	sure	to	check	out
Power	Productivity,	Brian	Tracy’s	online	training	and	certification	course	for
time	management	mastery.	This	course	is	designed	for	those	who	want	to	learn,
develop,	or	improve	their	time	management	skill	set	so	they	can	maximize	their
productivity	and	achieve	greater	success	in	every	aspect	of	life.
   To	learn	more	about	Power	Productivity	with	Brian	Tracy,	visit
www.briantracy.com/powerproductivity.


        Goals	Mastery	for	 Personal	and	Financial	Achievement

If	you’re	looking	to	make	true	change	in	your	life,	consider	Goals	Mastery	for
Personal	and	Financial	Achievement,	Brian	Tracy’s	ninety-day	transformational
program	that	provides	you	with	the	clarity	and	confidence	you	need	to	dissolve
self-imposed	limitations	and	become	an	unequivocal	powerhouse	in	the	pursuit
of	your	biggest,	most	important	dreams.
   To	learn	more	about	Goals	Mastery	for	Personal	and	Financial	Achievement,
visit	www.briantracy.com/goalsmasteryachievement.


         How	to	Write	 a	Book	and	Become	a	Published	Author

According	to	Amazon,	82	percent	of	Americans	want	to	write	a	book,	which	is
why	Brian	created	his	virtual	training	course,	How	to	Write	a	Book	and	Become
a	Published	Author.	Using	the	proven,	four-step	process	that	Brian	has	used	to
write	over	seventy	of	his	own	books,	this	program	shares	an	easy-to-follow
system	for	aspiring	authors	to	write	and	publish	their	first	book.

110
    To	 learn	more	about	How	to	Write	 a	Book	and	Become	a	Published	Author,
visit	www.briantracy.com/howtowriteabook.


                                            The	 6Figure	   Speaker

The	6Figure	Speaker	is	an	all-encompassing	training	course	for	developing	and
mastering	the	art	of	professional	speaking	developed	by	Brian	Tracy.	This
eighteen-part	virtual	training	 course	is	delivered	over	two	consecutive	weeks
through	a	sequence	of	online	video	modules	delivered	daily.	The	course	covers
everything	from	powerful	 speech	preparation	methods	and	techniques	for
overcoming	fear	to	vocal	techniques	and	strategies	for	negotiating	speaker
contracts.
    To	 learn	more	about	Brian	Tracy’s	6Figure	 Speaker	online	virtual	training
program,	visit	www.briantracy.com/6figurespeaker.


               21st	 Century	    Sales	 Training	     for	 Elite	   Performance

Becoming	a	master	at	selling	is	the	single	greatest	skill	you	can	develop	to
achieve	your	personal,	professional,	and	financial	goals,	which	is	why	 Brian
created	his	sales	training	program,	21st	Century	Sales	Training	for	Elite
Performance.	This	sales	training	course	is	for	anyone	who	wants	to	move	to	the
top	of	his	or	her	field,	 close	more	sales,	make	more	money,	and	gain	the	respect
of	peers	and	colleagues	as	a	leader	in	sales.
    To	 learn	more	about	Brian	Tracy’s	21st	Century	Sales	Training	 for	Elite
Performance	program,	visit	www.briantracy.com/21stcentury.

111
       About	        the	    Author















Brian	Tracy	is	one	of	the	top	business	speakers	in	the	world	today.	He	has
designed	and	presented	seminars	for	more	than	1,000	large	companies	and	more
than	10,000	small	and	medium-sized	enterprises	in	75	countries	on	the	subjects
of	Leadership,	Management,	Professional	Selling,	Business	Model	Reinvention,
and	Profit	Improvement.	He	has	addressed	more	than	5,000,000	people	in	more
than	5,000	talks	and	presentations	worldwide.	He	currently	speaks	to	250,000
people	per	year.	His	fast-moving,	entertaining	video-based	training	programs	are
taught	in	38	countries.
    Brian	is	a	bestselling	author.	He	has	written	more	than	80	books	that	have
been	translated	into	42	languages,	including	Kiss	That	Frog!,	Find	Your	Balance
Point,	Goals!,	Flight	Plan,	Maximum	Achievement,	No	Excuses!,	Advanced
Selling	Strategies,	and	How	the	Best	Leaders	Lead.	He	is	happily	married,	with
four	children	and	five	grandchildren.	He	is	the	president	of	Brian	Tracy
International	and	lives	in	Solana	Beach,	California.	He	can	be	reached	at
briantracy@briantracy.com.

112
Put	the	powerful	  lessons	of	Eat	That	 Frog!	 to	work	 for	 you
immediately!

Eat	    That	       Frog!	       Action	         Workbook

Practice	Your	  Way	to	 Success






















Packed	full	of	exercises,	assessments,	tips,	and	tools,	this	workbook	gives	you
everything	you	need	to	reflect,	reassess,	and	bring	about	real	improvements	in
performance.	It	can	change	your	life.

The	workbook	follows	along	with	the	Eat	That	Frog!	book—there	are	activities
for	each	chapter.	And	to	show	you	what	success	looks	like,	the	workbook
features	the	example	of	Shane,	who	applies	the	Eat	That	Frog!	principles	to	win
a	promotion	at	work,	start	a	business	on	the	side,	get	an	MBA,	and	avoid	burning
out	in	the	process.

The	Eat	That	Frog!	Action	Workbook	will	help	you	achieve	your	most	important

113
goals	faster	 than	you	 ever	 thought	 possible!

Paperback,	96	pages,	7.375”	x	9.25”
ISBN	978-1-5230-8470-8
PDF	ebook	ISBN	978-1-5230-9393-9

114
Eat	    That	       Frog!	       Cards






















Designed	for	individual	or	group	play,	these	cards	offer	a	fun,	hands-on	way	to
identify	what’s	holding	you	back	and	develop	the	right	strategies	to	stop
procrastinating	and	get	more	done.

One	set	of	cards	in	the	deck	describes	procrastination	habits,	which	you	rank	in
order	of	importance.	Do	you	become	paralyzed	by	the	length	of	your	to-do	list?
Do	you	work	on	simple	but	low-impact	tasks	first	and	neglect	the	harder,	higher-
impact	tasks?	Are	you	too	easily	distracted	by	social	media?

Once	you’ve	ranked	your	negative	habits,	you	then	match	these	“problem”	cards
with	“solution”	cards	that	describe	strategies	for	overcoming	them.	You’ll	end
up	with	a	comprehensive,	memorable,	and	personalized	guide	to	dealing	with
your	biggest	behavioral	obstacles	to	success.

Box	with	56	cards	and	instruction	sheet
ISBN	978-1-5230-8469-2

116
Eat	    That	     Frog!	       Video	      Training	          Program





















It’s	like	getting	a	private	coaching	session	from	one	of	the	world’s	leading
success	experts!	In	this	video	training	program,	Brian	Tracy	presents	the	lessons
of	Eat	That	Frog!	in	a	casual	setting,	sitting	right	across	the	desk	from	you.	The
2.5-hour	course	features	twenty-three	segments:	a	special	introduction,	all
twenty-one	chapters	from	Eat	That	Frog!,	and	an	inspiring	conclusion.
Each	segment	invites	viewers	to	reinforce	what	they’ve	learned	using	exercises
in	the	Eat	That	Frog!	Action	Workbook	so	that	good	habits	truly	get	a	chance	to
sink	in.	Viewers	can	engage	in	the	course	at	their	own	pace	and	by	the	end	will
have	the	tools	to	stop	procrastinating	and	get	more	done—once	and	for	all!

150	minutes
DVD,	ISBN	978-1-52309-450-9
Download,	ISBN	978-1-5230-9451-6
Streaming,	ISBN	978-1-5230-9452-3

118
Available	           as	   an	   audiobook!






















Absorb	the	lessons	of	Eat	That	Frog!	in	the	car,	at	the	gym,	or	on	the	couch;
while	cooking,	cleaning,	gardening,	or	waiting	in	line—anywhere	you	like!	Read
by	Brian	Tracy,	this	audiobook	can	be	downloaded	to	any	device.	So	you	can
listen	on	your	phone,	your	tablet,	your	laptop,	or	your	desktop—a	great	example
of	making	technology	a	wonderful	servant,	as	Brian	recommends	in	chapter	16.
Turn	your	slack	time	into	learning	time!	Use	your	ears	to	eat	those	frogs!

MP3	digital	audiobook,	150	minutes,	ISBN	978-1-62656-944-7
Audio	CD	ISBN	978-1-52007-199-2
MP3	CD	ISBN	978-1-52007-200-5
CDs	available	for	purchase	from	Dreamscape	at	877.983.7326

120
Free	    Full-Color	            Sticker!


















Make	sure	you	stick	to	your	goals!	This	bright	and	colorful	4-inch-diameter
sticker	is	perfect	for	your	laptop,	day	planner,	notebook,	refrigerator,	office—
any	place	you	want	to	be	reminded	to	tackle	your	most	important	tasks	first!
To	get	your	free	sticker,	just	go	to
www.bkconnection.com/frogsticker

121
Also	by	Brian	 Tracy

Be	   a	  Sales	     Superstar

21	Great	Ways	 to	Sell	More,	 Faster,	 Easier	 in	Tough	 Markets


















Based	on	his	close	work	with	top	salespeople	and	his	keen	observation	of	their
methods,	as	well	as	his	own	experiences	as	a	record-breaking	salesman,	Brian
Tracy	presents	key	ideas	and	techniques	that	address	both	the	inner	game	of
selling	(the	mental	component)	and	the	outer	game	of	selling	(the	methods	and
techniques	of	actually	making	the	sale).

Paperback,	168	pages,	ISBN	978-1-57675-273-9
PDF	ebook,	ISBN	978-1-60509-836-4
ePub	ebook,	ISBN	978-1-60509-694-0




Goals!

How	to	 Get	Everything	  You	 Want—Faster	  Than	You	 Ever
Thought	 Possible,	Second	Edition

122
Thought	   Possible,	   Second	  Edition




















Brian	Tracy	presents	a	simple,	powerful,	and	effective	 system	for	setting	and
achieving	goals—a	method	that	has	been	used	by	more	than	one	million	people
to	achieve	extraordinary	things.	In	this	revised	and	expanded	second	edition,	he
has	added	three	new	chapters	addressing	areas	in	which	goals	can	be	most
rewarding	but	also	the	toughest	to	set	and	keep:	finances,	family,	and	health.

Paperback,	304	pages,	ISBN	978-1-60509-411-3
PDF	ebook,	ISBN	978-1-60509-412-0
ePub	ebook,	ISBN	978-1-60509-940-8

123
Flight	        Plan

The	Real	Secret	of	 Success


















Life	is	a	journey,	and	as	with	any	other	journey	you	need	clear	goals,	plans,	and
schedules	to	get	from	where	you	are	now	to	where	you	want	to	be—a	flight	plan.
In	this	powerful,	practical	book,	Brian	Tracy	uses	the	metaphor	of	an	airplane
trip	to	help	you	chart	a	course	to	greater	achievement,	happiness,	and	personal
fulfillment.

Hardcover,	168	pages,	ISBN	978-1-57675-497-9
Paperback,	ISBN	978-1-60509-275-1
PDF	ebook,	ISBN	978-1-57675-556-3
ePub	ebook	ISBN,	978-1-60994-042-3




The	     100	    Absolutely	             Unbreakable	                Laws
of	  Business	          Success

124
Why	are	some	people	more	successful	in	business	than	others?	Why	do	some
businesses	flourish	where	others	fail?	In	this	eye-opening	practical	guide,	Brian
Tracy	presents	a	set	of	universal	laws	that	lie	behind	the	success	of
businesspeople	everywhere.	He	provides	numerous	real-life	examples	to
illustrate	how	each	law	functions	 and	practical	guidance	and	exercises	for
applying	each	to	your	life	 and	work.

Paperback,	336	pages,	ISBN	978-1-57675-126-8
PDF	ebook,	ISBN	978-1-57675-794-9
ePub	ebook	ISBN	978-1-60509-898-2

125
Berrett-Koehler	   is	an	independent	publisher	dedicated	to	an	ambitious
mission:	connecting	people	and	ideas	to	create	a	world	that	works	 for
all.

We	believe	that	to	truly	 create	a	better	world,	action	is	needed	at	all
levels—individual,	 organizational,	 and	societal.	At	the	individual	 level,
our	publications	help	people	align	their	 lives	with	 their	values	and	with
their	aspirations	for	a	better	world.	At	 the	organizational	level,	 our
publications	promote	progressive	leadership	and	management	practices,
socially	responsible	approaches	to	business,	and	humane	and	effective
organizations.	At	the	societal	level,	our	publications	 advance	social	and
economic	justice,	shared	prosperity,	sustainability,	and	new	solutions	to
national	and	global	issues.

A	major	theme	of	our	publications	 is	“Opening	 Up	New	Space.”
Berrett-Koehler	titles	 challenge	conventional	thinking,	 introduce	new
ideas,	and	foster	positive	change.	Their	common	quest	is	changing	the
underlying	beliefs,	mindsets,	institutions,	 and	structures	that	keep
generating	the	same	cycles	of	problems,	no	matter	who	our	leaders	are
or	what	improvement	programs	we	adopt.

We	strive	to	practice	what	we	preach—to	operate	our	publishing
company	in	line	with	 the	ideas	in	our	books.	At	the	core	of	our
approach	is	stewardship,	which	we	define	as	a	deep	sense	of
responsibility	to	administer	 the	company	for	the	benefit	of	all	 of	our
“stakeholder”	groups:	authors,	customers,	employees,	investors,	service
providers,	and	the	communities	and	environment	around	us.

We	are	grateful	to	the	thousands	of	readers,	authors,	and	other	friends
of	the	company	who	consider	themselves	to	be	part	of	the	“BK
Community.”	 We	hope	that	you,	too,	will	 join	 us	in	our	mission.

A	BK	 Life	 Book

This	book	is	part	of	our	BK	 Life	 series.	BK	Life	 books	change	people’s

126
lives.	They	help	individuals	 improve	their	 lives	in	ways	that	are
beneficial	for	the	families,	 organizations,	communities,	nations,	and
world	in	which	 they	live	 and	work.	To	find	 out	more,	visit	 www.bk-
life.com.

127
Dear	Reader,

Thank	you	for	 picking	up	this	 book	and	joining	our	 worldwide
community	 of	Berrett-Koehler	 readers.	We	share	ideas	that	bring
positive	change	into	people’s	lives,	 organizations,	and	society.

To	welcome	you,	 we’d	like	 to	offer	you	a	free	e-book.	You	 can	pick
from	among	twelve	 of	our	bestselling	books	by	entering	the
promotional	 code	BKP92E	here:
http://www.bkconnection.com/welcome.

When	you	claim	 your	free	e-book,	we’ll	 also	send	you	a	copy	of	our	e-
newsletter,	the	BK	Communiqué.	Although	 you’re	free	to	unsubscribe,
there	are	many	benefits	to	sticking	around.	In	every	issue	of	our
newsletter	you’ll	 find	 •	A	free	e-book

•	Tips	from	 famous	authors	•	Discounts	on	spotlight	titles	 •	Hilarious
insider	publishing	news	•	A	 chance	to	win	a	prize	for	answering	a	riddle
Best	of	all,	our	readers	tell	us,	“Your	 newsletter	is	the	only	one	I
actually	read.”	So	claim	your	 gift	today,	and	please	stay	in	touch!

Sincerely,

Charlotte	Ashlock
Steward	of	the	BK	 Website	Questions?	Comments?	Contact	me	at
bkcommunity@bkpub.com.

